Title: How the Integration of Telehealth and Coordinated Care Approaches Impact Health Care Service Organization Structure and Ethos: Mixed Methods Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Coordinated care and telehealth services have the potential to deliver quality care to chronically ill patients. They can both reduce the economic burden of chronic care and maximize the delivery of clinical services. Such services require new behaviors, routines, and ways of working to improve health outcomes, administrative efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and user (patient and health professional) experience.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess how health care organization setup influences the perceptions and experience of service managers and frontline staff during the development and deployment of integrated care with and without telehealth.
METHODS: As part of a multinational project exploring the use of coordinated care and telehealth, questionnaires were sent to service managers and frontline practitioners. These questionnaires gathered quantitative and qualitative data related to organizational issues in the implementation of coordinated care and telehealth. Three analytical stages were followed: (1) preliminary analysis for a direct comparison of the responses of service managers and frontline staff to a range of organizational issues, (2) secondary analysis to establish statistically significant relationships between baseline and follow-up questionnaires, and (3) thematic analysis of free-text responses of service managers and frontline staff.
RESULTS: Both frontline practitioners and managers highlighted that training, tailored to the needs of different professional groups and staff grades, was a crucial element in the successful implementation of new services. Frontline staff were markedly less positive than managers in their views regarding the responsiveness of their organization and the pace of change.
CONCLUSIONS: The data provide evidence that the setup of health care services is positively associated with outcomes in several areas, particularly tailored staff training, rewards for good service, staff satisfaction, and patient involvement.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of routinely collected data in a UK cohort of publicly funded randomised clinical trials.
Abstract: Routinely collected data about health in medical records, registries and hospital activity statistics is now routinely collected in an electronic form. The extent to which such sources of data are now being routinely accessed to deliver efficient clinical trials, is unclear. The aim of this study was to ascertain current practice amongst a United Kingdom (UK) cohort of recently funded and ongoing randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in relation to sources and use of routinely collected outcome data. Recently funded and ongoing RCTs were identified for inclusion by searching the National Institute for Health Research journals library. Trials that have a protocol available were assessed for inclusion and those that use or plan to use routinely collected health data (RCHD) for at least one outcome were included. RCHD sources and outcome information were extracted. Of 216 RCTs, 102 (47%) planned to use RCHD. A RCHD source was the sole source of outcome data for at least one outcome in 46 (45%) of those 102 trials. The most frequent sources are Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) and Office for National Statistics (ONS), with the most common outcome data to be extracted being on mortality, hospital admission, and health service resource use. Our study has found that around half of publicly funded trials in a UK cohort (NIHR HTA funded trials that had a protocol available) plan to collect outcome data from routinely collected data sources.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluation Protocol and Statistical Analysis Plan for the Cost-Effectiveness of a Novel Australian Stroke Telemedicine Program; the Victorian Stroke Telemedicine (VST) program.
Abstract: Introduction: Telemedicine can address limited access to medical specialists in rural hospitals. Stroke provides an important case study because: it is a major cause of disease burden; effective treatments to reduce disability (e.g., thrombolysis) can be provided within the initial hours of stroke onset; careful selection of patients is needed by skilled doctors to minimize adverse events from thrombolysis; and there are major treatment gaps (only about half of regional hospitals in Australia provide thrombolysis for stroke). Few economic analyses have been undertaken on telestroke and the majority have been simulation models. The aim of this protocol and statistical analysis plan is to outline the methods for the cost-effectiveness evaluation of a large, multicentre acute stroke telemedicine program being conducted in Victoria, Australia. Methods: Using a historical- and prospective-controlled design, we will compare patient-level data obtained in the 12 months prior to the Victorian Stroke Telemedicine (VST) program implementation and during the first 12 months of VST to determine the incremental difference in costs and patient outcomes at 3 and 12 months. Secondary aims include assessing the cost per additional patient receiving intravenous thrombolysis and the cost per additional patient receiving intravenous thrombolysis within 60 min. Tertiary aims include assessing the potential longer-term cost-effectiveness in the second year of the program at the hospitals to determine whether any program benefits are sustained once site coordinators are no longer employed; and modeling the potential net life-time costs and benefits from a societal perspective. Multivariable uncertainty and one-way sensitivity analyses will be performed to assess the robustness of results. Results: Sixteen hospitals participated. Patient-level data collection including 12-month outcomes for the cohorts obtained in the first and second year of the program for each hospital was completed in January 2020. Conclusion: The results from this real-world study with patient-level data will provide high quality evidence of the costs, health benefits and policy implications of telestroke programs, including the potential for application in other locations within Australia or other countries with similar health system delivery and financing.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Interventions to Manage Diabetes: Has the Evidence Changed Since 2008?
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To synthesize updated evidence on the cost-effectiveness (CE) of interventions to manage diabetes, its complications, and comorbidities.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We conducted a systematic literature review of studies from high-income countries evaluating the CE of diabetes management interventions recommended by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and published in English between June 2008 and July 2017. We also incorporated studies from a previous CE review from the period 1985-2008. We classified the interventions based on their strength of evidence (strong, supportive, or uncertain) and levels of CE: cost-saving (more health benefit at a lower cost), very cost-effective (≤$25,000 per life year gained [LYG] or quality-adjusted life year [QALY]), cost-effective ($25,001-$50,000 per LYG or QALY), marginally cost-effective ($50,001-$100,000 per LYG or QALY), or not cost-effective (>$100,000 per LYG or QALY). Costs were measured in 2017 U.S. dollars.
RESULTS: Seventy-three new studies met our inclusion criteria. These were combined with 49 studies from the previous review to yield 122 studies over the period 1985-2017. A large majority of the ADA-recommended interventions remain cost-effective. Specifically, we found strong evidence that the following ADA-recommended interventions are cost-saving or very cost-effective: In the cost-saving category are 1) ACE inhibitor (ACEI)/angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) therapy for intensive hypertension management compared with standard hypertension management, 2) ACEI/ARB therapy to prevent chronic kidney disease and/or end-stage renal disease in people with albuminuria compared with no ACEI/ARB therapy, 3) comprehensive foot care and patient education to prevent and treat foot ulcers among those at moderate/high risk of developing foot ulcers, 4) telemedicine for diabetic retinopathy screening compared with office screening, and 5) bariatric surgery compared with no surgery for individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity (BMI ≥30 kg/m2). In the very cost-effective category are 1) intensive glycemic management (targeting A1C <7%) compared with conventional glycemic management (targeting an A1C level of 8-10%) for individuals with newly diagnosed T2D, 2) multicomponent interventions (involving behavior change/education and pharmacological therapy targeting hyperglycemia, hypertension, dyslipidemia, microalbuminuria, nephropathy/retinopathy, secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease with aspirin) compared with usual care, 3) statin therapy compared with no statin therapy for individuals with T2D and history of cardiovascular disease, 4) diabetes self-management education and support compared with usual care, 5) T2D screening every 3 years starting at age 45 years compared with no screening, 6) integrated, patient-centered care compared with usual care, 7) smoking cessation compared with no smoking cessation, 8) daily aspirin use as primary prevention for cardiovascular complications compared with usual care, 9) self-monitoring of blood glucose three times per day compared with once per day among those using insulin, 10) intensive glycemic management compared with conventional insulin therapy for T2D among adults aged ≥50 years, and 11) collaborative care for depression compared with usual care.
CONCLUSIONS: Complementing professional treatment recommendations, our systematic review provides an updated understanding of the potential value of interventions to manage diabetes and its complications and can assist clinicians and payers in prioritizing interventions and health care resources.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient Use of Cardiovascular Devices and Apps: Are We Getting Our Money's Worth?
Abstract: The evolution of technology makes it likely that a large number of people will invest in and use health-related mobile applications and wearable devices. Yet the question remains: Do these technology-based interventions modify health behavior and improve health…and are we getting our money's worth? The vast majority of studies concerning health-related apps and wearable devices have small sample sizes and short time spans of 6 months or less, so it is not clear if these durations were determined by lack of consistent use over time. Furthermore, many of the most popular applications have not been subjected to randomized trials. Overall, the small demonstrated improvements in outcomes are often associated with professional involvement from clinicians, coaches, or diabetes educators provided in conjunction with use of mobile health (mHealth) platforms. This paper explores the use of mHealth technologies that address cardiovascular disease/prevention (eg, diabetes, diet, physical activity, and associated weight loss) and discusses the lack of adequate evidence to support even minimal patient investment in mobile applications or wearable devices at this time.
Label Included: 0

Title: Understanding the cost savings of video visits in outpatient surgical clinics.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Expansion of telehealth is a high-priority strategic initiative for many health systems. Surgical clinics' implementation of video visits has been identified as a way to improve patient and provider experience. However, whether using video visits can reduce the cost of an outpatient visit is unknown.
METHODS: Prospective case study using time-driven activity-based costing at two outpatient surgical clinics at an academic institution. We conducted stakeholder interviews and in-person observations to map outpatient clinic flow and measure resource utilization of four key steps: check-in, vitals collection and rooming, clinician encounter, and check-out. Finally, we calculated the resource cost for each step using representative salary information to calculate total visit cost.
RESULTS: Video visits did not systematically reduce the amount of time clinicians spent with patients. Mean [standard deviation (SD)] visit costs were as follows: traditional clinic visits, $26.84 ($10.13); physician-led video visits, $27.26 ($9.69); and physician assistant-led video visits, $9.86 ($2.76). There was no significant difference in the total cost associated with physician-led traditional clinic visits and video visits (P=0.89). However, physician assistant-led video visits were significantly lower cost than physician-led video visits (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Using physician-led video visits does not reduce the cost of outpatient surgical visits when compared to traditional clinic visits. However, the use of less expensive clinician resources for video visits (e.g., physician-assistants) may yield cost savings for clinics.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telephone consultation service in orthopedics during COVID-19 pandemic.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIM: The current COVID-19 pandemic scenario has driven surgical departments to a transformation. The worldwide spread of the disease has led to a public health quarantine where health care professionals are at high risk of infection. In this context, telemedicine has been promoted and scaled up to reduce the risk of transmission. This study aims to demonstrate that a combined framework based on telematics and in-person clinical encounter not only ensures medical care but the safety of healthcare professionals and patients.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Descriptive observational study on the follow-up of patients during the COVID19 Pandemic, combining telephone and traditional.
RESULTS: A total of 5031 telephone calls were made, differentiating between medical referrals, specialized primary care visits, and outpatient consultation. They were classified as successful, required an in-person visit, or no successful telephone contact. Furthermore, we divided them into 2 groups: resolved and unresolved. 53% of all telematic visits were successful.
CONCLUSIONS: Telematic medical systems are a feasible option in a orthopedics department and an interesting resource to preserve once the pandemic is resolved. Future lines of research should be opened to improve system success, analyze its cost-effectiveness ratio, and correct any legal conflicts that may exist.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Smartphone App With a Digital Care Pathway for Patients Undergoing Spine Surgery: Development and Feasibility Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is a great unmet clinical need to provide patients undergoing spinal surgery and their caregivers with ongoing, high-quality care before and after surgery in an efficiency-focused health care environment.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to design, develop, and evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of a novel planning-, outcomes-, and analytics-based smartphone app called ManageMySurgery (MMS) in patients undergoing elective spine surgery (MMS-Spine).
METHODS: The development process of the MMS app was conducted over 2 sequential stages: (1) an evidence-based intervention design with refinement from surgeon and patient feedback and (2) feasibility testing in a clinical pilot study. We developed a novel, mobile-based, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act-compliant platform for interventional and surgical procedures. It is a patient-centric mobile health app that streamlines patients' interactions with their care team. MMS divides the patient journey into phases, making it feasible to provide customized care pathways that meet patients' unique needs. Patient-reported outcomes are easily collected and conform to the National Institutes of Health Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) standard.
RESULTS: We tested the feasibility of the MMS-Spine app with patients undergoing elective spine surgery at a large academic health system. A total of 47 patients undergoing elective spine surgery (26 cervical spine and 21 lumbar spine surgeries) downloaded and used MMS-Spine to navigate their surgical journey, quantify their baseline characteristics and postoperative outcomes, and provide feedback on the utility of the app in preparing for and recovering from their spinal surgery. The median age was 59.0 (range 33-77) years, 22 of the 47 patients (47%) were women, and 26 patients (55%) had commercial insurance. Of the 47 patients, a total of 33 (70%) logged in on an iOS device, 11 (23%) on an Android device, and 3 (6%) on a computer or tablet. A total of 17 of the 47 patients (36%) added a caregiver, of which 7 (41%) logged in. The median number of sign-ins was 2. A total of 38 of 47 patients (81%) completed their baseline preoperative PROMIS-29 outcomes, and 14 patients (30%) completed at least one PROMIS-29 survey during the postoperative period. Of the 24 patients who completed the MMS survey, 21 (88%) said it was helpful during preparation for their procedure, 16 (67%) said it was helpful during the postoperative period, and 23 (96%) said that they would recommend MMS to a friend or family member.
CONCLUSIONS: We used a patient-centered approach based on proven behavior change techniques to develop a comprehensive smartphone app for patients undergoing elective spine surgery. The optimized version of the app is ready for formal testing in a larger randomized clinical study to establish its cost-effectiveness and effect on patients' self-management skills and long-term outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote monitoring of marginalised populations affected by COVID-19: a retrospective review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The COVID-19 outbreak in Singapore has largely centred around migrant worker dormitories, comprising over 90% of all cases in the country. Dormitories are home to a culturally and linguistically distinct, low-income population, without on-site healthcare after-hours. The primary objective of this study was to assess the engagement and utilisation of a simple, low-cost, accessible, mobile health solution for remote self-reporting of vital parameters in dormitory residents with COVID-19.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of medical care.
SETTING: Two large migrant worker dormitories with a combined population of 31 546.
PARTICIPANTS: All COVID-19-affected residents housed in dormitories during the study period.
INTERVENTION: All residents were taught to use a chat assistant to self-report their temperature, heart rate and oxygen saturations. Results flowed into a dashboard, which alerted clinicians of abnormal results.
OUTCOMES: The primary outcome measure was engagement rate. This was derived from the total number of residents who registered on the platform over the total number of COVID-19-affected residents in the dormitories during the study period. Secondary outcome measures included outcomes of the alerts and subsequent escalations of care.
RESULTS: 800 of the 931 COVID-19-affected residents (85.9%) engaged with the platform to log a total of 12 511 discrete episodes of vital signs. Among 372 abnormal readings, 96 teleconsultations were initiated, of which 7 (1.8%) were escalated to emergency services and 18 (4.9%) were triaged to earlier physical medical review on-site.
CONCLUSIONS: A chat-assistant-based self-reporting platform is an effective and safe community-based intervention to monitor marginalised populations with distinct cultural and linguistic backgrounds, living communally and affected by COVID-19. Lessons learnt from this approach may be applied to develop safe and cost-effective telemedicine solutions across similar settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Elective home replacement of gastrostomy feeding tubes is safe and cost-effective. Has hospital referral become obsolete?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) is the technique of choice for providing enteral nutrition in patients with functioning gastrointestinal tract. Available guidelines cover indications and procedural management for PEG placement, while there is no consensus about subsequent replacement with gastrostomy feeding tubes (GFT) and their management. We hypothesized that GFT replacement, according to a standardized protocol supervised by a trained gastroenterologist could be integrated into the home health care system.
AIMS: To evaluate the safety and cost-efficacy of home GFT replacement.
METHODS: All consecutive patients who underwent elective home GFT replacements from July 2016 to December 2019 were prospectively enrolled; all procedural details and outcomes have been recorded.
RESULTS: Overall, 235 GFT replacements in 84 patients [40.5% male, 79.5 (74-94) years] were included. Among these, 230 (97.8%) were completed at patients' home while in five cases (2.2%) patients were referred to the hospital to confirm appropriate GFT placement. No adverse event occurred. An overall cost reduction of 46.8% was obtained, leading to €124 savings per procedure and up to €29,000 savings for the entire study period.
CONCLUSIONS: When performed electively according to a standardized protocol, home GFT replacement is safe and effective, and leads to relevant cost reduction.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-based chemotherapy for stage III colon cancer patients in Thailand: Cost-utility and budget impact analyses.
Abstract: Home-based chemotherapy (HC) is a new treatment alternative to hospital-based chemotherapy treatment (IP) and is administered via portable intravenous pumps at the patient's home. HC reduces the demand for inpatient bed capacity in hospitals and reduces the cost of an infusion. This study takes a societal perspective while conducting the cost-utility and budget impact analyses (BIA) of HC and IP with an mFOLFOX6 regimen on patients with stage III colon cancer. We conducted a cost-utility analysis with a 6-month time horizon. The parameter inputs for the model were gathered from a retrospective cohort study on patients diagnosed with stage III colon cancer at Ramathibodi Hospital, Bangkok. The resource usage of HC and IP was determined based on medical records. The per-unit direct medical, home health service, and adverse events (AE) management costs were gathered from the standard cost list. The health outcome of treatment was measured in terms of quality-adjusted life years. Disutility related to AE was calculated. We conducted a sensitivity analysis for the uncertainty results and performed BIA based on the societal perspective on a 1-year time horizon. HC provided a cost-saving of $1,513.37 per patient for the period of treatment. Thus, assuming 526 patients per year, the use of HC could achieve a cumulative annual cost-saving of $828,436. HC is a cost-saving strategy compared to IP for stage III colon cancer treatment. We recommend that the service reimbursement should include national standardization in chemotherapy regimens as well as practice guidelines and protocols to prevent serious AEs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Real-world Evidence to Estimate Prostate Cancer Costs for First-line Treatment or Active Surveillance.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men and second leading cause of cancer-related deaths. Changes in screening guidelines, adoption of active surveillance (AS), and implementation of high-cost technologies have changed treatment costs. Traditional cost-effectiveness studies rely on clinical trial protocols unlikely to capture actual practice behavior, and existing studies use data predating new technologies. Real-world evidence reflecting these changes is lacking.
OBJECTIVE: To assess real-world costs of first-line prostate cancer management.
DESIGN SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: We used clinical electronic health records for 2008-2018 linked with the California Cancer Registry and the Medicare Fee Schedule to assess costs over 24 or 60 mo following diagnosis. We identified surgery or radiation treatments with structured methods, while we used both structured data and natural language processing to identify AS.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Our results are risk-stratified calculated cost per day (CCPD) for first-line management, which are independent of treatment duration. We used the Kruskal-Wallis test to compare unadjusted CCPD while analysis of covariance log-linear models adjusted estimates for age and Charlson comorbidity.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: In 3433 patients, surgery (54.6%) was more common than radiation (22.3%) or AS (23.0%). Two years following diagnosis, AS ($2.97/d) was cheaper than surgery ($5.67/d) or radiation ($9.34/d) in favorable disease, while surgery ($7.17/d) was cheaper than radiation ($16.34/d) for unfavorable disease. At 5 yr, AS ($2.71/d) remained slightly cheaper than surgery ($2.87/d) and radiation ($4.36/d) in favorable disease, while for unfavorable disease surgery ($4.15/d) remained cheaper than radiation ($10.32/d). Study limitations include information derived from a single healthcare system and costs based on benchmark Medicare estimates rather than actual payment exchanges.
PATIENT SUMMARY: Active surveillance was cheaper than surgery (-47.6%) and radiation (-68.2%) at 2 yr for favorable-risk disease, which decreased by 5 yr (-5.6% and -37.8%, respectively). Surgery was less costly than radiation for unfavorable risk for both intervals (-56.1% and -59.8%, respectively).
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness of telemedicine interventions, delivered exclusively during the postnatal period, on postpartum depression in mothers without history or existing mental disorders: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Postpartum depression, one of the most common forms of depression, is highly prevalent worldwide among women during childbirth. Despite available treatments for postpartum depression, numerous barriers hinder women to access care including time, financial constraints, and childcare concerns. Telemedicine interventions are suggested to be feasible to prevent and improve postpartum depression.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the effectiveness of telemedicine interventions - delivered exclusively during the postnatal period, on postpartum depression symptomatology in women with no history of mental disorders.
DESIGN: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
METHODS: PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, and ProQuest Dissertations & Theses databases were used to identify relevant randomized controlled trials, until 7 January 2020. Studies were quality assessed using the Cochrane Library Risk of Bias Tool. The results of postpartum depression scores were pooled using a random-effects model. Intervention completion rate and participants' satisfaction were reported in a narrative form, as secondary outcomes.
RESULTS: Ten trials including a total of 2366 participants, contributed data to the review. Seven studies were included in the quantitative synthesis. Women who received technology-based interventions, regardless of the type (web-based versus telephone-based), had a statistically significant improvement in postpartum depression (mean difference: -1.81, 95% CI: -2.68 to -0.93; P<.0001). The completion rate was 80% in the intervention groups compared to 76% in the control groups. Three studies reporting participants' satisfaction revealed that the participants were highly satisfied with the technology-based interventions.
CONCLUSION: Overall, telemedicine interventions appear to be promising in preventing and improving postpartum depression. Further larger-scale high-quality research is required to establish an evidence-based telemedicine approach, in terms of structure, content, and providers. Future economic evaluation is also vital to evaluate the long-term use of telemedicine in improving postpartum depression.
Label Included: 0

Title: Advanced telehealth technology improves home-based exercise therapy for people with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a systematic review.
Abstract: QUESTIONS: How effective is home-based exercise therapy delivered using advanced telehealth technology (ATT-ET) for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) compared with: no exercise therapy (ET), in/outpatient ET, and home-based ET without ATT?
DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised trials.
PARTICIPANTS: People with stable COPD referred for ET.
INTERVENTION: ATT-ET.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Exercise capacity, quality of life, functional dyspnoea, cost-effectiveness and various secondary outcomes.
RESULTS: Fifteen eligible trials involved 1,522 participants. Compared with no ET, ATT-ET improved exercise capacity (four studies, 6-minute walk test MD 15 m, 95% CI 5 to 24) and probably improved quality of life (four studies, SMD 0.22, 95% CI 0.00 to 0.43) and functional dyspnoea (two studies, Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire-Dyspnoea MD 2, 95% CI 0 to 4). ATT-ET had a similar effect as in/outpatient ET on functional dyspnoea (two studies, SMD -0.05, 95% CI -0.39 to 0.29) and a similar or better effect on quality of life (two studies, SMD 0.23, 95% CI -0.04 to 0.50) but its relative effect on exercise capacity was very uncertain (three studies, 6-minute walk test MD 6 m, 95% CI -26 to 37). ATT-ET had a similar effect as home-based ET without ATT on exercise capacity (three studies, 6-minute walk test MD 2 m, 95% CI -16 to 19) and similar or better effects on quality of life (three studies, SMD 0.79, 95% CI -0.04 to 1.62) and functional dyspnoea (two studies, Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire-Dyspnoea MD 2, 95% CI 0 to 4). ATT-ET had effects on most secondary outcomes that were similar to or better than each comparator.
CONCLUSION: ATT-ET improves exercise capacity, functional dyspnoea and quality of life compared with no ET, although some benefits may be small. Its benefits are generally similar to in/outpatient ET and similar to or better than home-based ET without ATT.
REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42020165773.
Label Included: 0

Title: Systematic Review of Telehealth Cost Minimization for Patients and Health Systems in Otolaryngology.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE/HYPOTHESIS: The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in telehealth becoming commonplace in many health care fields. Telehealth benefits include improving access, decreasing costs, and elevating patient's experience. A review of cost minimization (CM) analyses was performed in order to explore scientific studies associated with integrating tele-otolaryngology in clinical practice. Our primary objective was to evaluate published literature for cost related to the implementation of telemedicine across otolaryngology, and to determine CM when compared to in-person visits.
STUDY DESIGN: Systematic Literature Review.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review using PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane in May 2020, to identify studies with a cost analysis of tele-otolaryngology care. Inclusion criteria focused on articles citing CM data from telehealth services. Literature quality was assessed using the MINORS scoring system.
RESULTS: From 380 original articles screened only nine evaluated cost in otolaryngology. CM in the US ranged from $68 to $900 per visit. Cost was evaluated in general otolaryngology, sleep medicine, otology, and head and neck cancer surgery, the latter had the most benefit. The most common types of telehealth visits were routine follow-up and screening. Data were insufficient for meta-analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine has been trialed across various otolaryngology subspecialties; its incorporation is projected to have a meaningful impact on access to specialty care. This research suggests that the delivery of virtual care reduces cost with the potential of increasing net revenue across multiple otolaryngology subspecialties. Further studies are needed to better discern the entirety of cost savings and the best settings for integration.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 3 Laryngoscope, 131:1741-1748, 2021.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient's Perspectives of Telepsychiatry: The Past, Present and Future.
Abstract: Access to mental health care has significant disparities due to treatment gap, more so particularly for the remotely residing, physically vulnerable, aging populations. Adoption of technology will enable more people to receive specialty care addressing distance, transportation and cost-related barriers to treatment engagement from the comfort of home. Telemedicine has been regarded as "electronic personal protective equipment" by reducing the number of physical contacts and risk contamination for patients during COVID-19 crisis. This review aimed to give a broad view of patients' perception of the use of telepsychiatry in terms of clinical outcome, cost-effectiveness, and solutions to address patients' challenges with the adoption of technology. Over the years, telepsychiatry, both in synchronous and asynchronous modalities, had shown to improve patients' adherence to treatment, follow-up rates, and clinical symptoms, overcome stigma and discrimination, and save cost expenses accessing health care with better satisfaction and usability outcomes. Its utility is widespread such as in delivering care emergency evaluation, crisis intervention, conducting neuropsychological assessments, psychotherapy, promoting lifestyle modification, enhancing self-efficacy, and overcoming patients' linguistic and cultural barriers to care. However, patients' privacy and confidentiality and psychiatrists' legal liability remain as matter of major concern in digital platform. To keep up with the pace of technology and patients' expectations, a more agile approach is essential to develop, improve, and evaluate telepsychiatric interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: ED to EPI: protocol for a pragmatic randomised controlled trial of an SMS (text) messaging intervention to improve the transition from the emergency department to early psychosis intervention for young people with psychosis.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: While nearly half of all new psychotic disorders are diagnosed in the emergency department (ED), most young people who present to the ED with psychosis do not receive timely follow-up with a psychiatrist, and even fewer with evidence-based early psychosis intervention (EPI) services. We aim to test an intervention delivered using short message service (SMS), a low-cost, low-complexity, youth-friendly approach, to improve transitions from the ED to EPI services.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a protocol for a pragmatic randomised, single blind, controlled trial with accompanying economic and qualitative evaluations conducted at the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) in Toronto, Canada. A consecutive series of 186 participants aged 16-29 referred by the ED to CAMH's EPI programme will be recruited for a trial of a two-way intervention involving reminders, psychoeducation and check-ins delivered via SMS. The primary outcome will be attendance at the first consultation appointment within 30 days of study enrolment assessed through chart reviews in the electronic health record. We will also extract routine clinical measures, including the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, Clinical Global Impression and Service Engagement Scale, and link with provincial health administrative data to examine system-level outcomes, including ED visits and psychiatric hospitalisations, 6 months and up to 2 years after baseline. We will perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of the primary study outcome and costs incurred, calculating an incremental cost effectiveness ratio. Web-based surveys and qualitative interviews will explore intervention user experience. Patients and families with lived experience will be engaged in all aspects of the project.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Research Ethics Board approval has been obtained. Findings will be reported in scientific journal articles and shared with key stakeholders including youth, family members, knowledge users and decision makers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT04298450.
Label Included: 0

Title: Artificial intelligence for teleophthalmology-based diabetic retinopathy screening in a national programme: an economic analysis modelling study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Deep learning is a novel machine learning technique that has been shown to be as effective as human graders in detecting diabetic retinopathy from fundus photographs. We used a cost-minimisation analysis to evaluate the potential savings of two deep learning approaches as compared with the current human assessment: a semi-automated deep learning model as a triage filter before secondary human assessment; and a fully automated deep learning model without human assessment.
METHODS: In this economic analysis modelling study, using 39 006 consecutive patients with diabetes in a national diabetic retinopathy screening programme in Singapore in 2015, we used a decision tree model and TreeAge Pro to compare the actual cost of screening this cohort with human graders against the simulated cost for semi-automated and fully automated screening models. Model parameters included diabetic retinopathy prevalence rates, diabetic retinopathy screening costs under each screening model, cost of medical consultation, and diagnostic performance (ie, sensitivity and specificity). The primary outcome was total cost for each screening model. Deterministic sensitivity analyses were done to gauge the sensitivity of the results to key model assumptions.
FINDINGS: From the health system perspective, the semi-automated screening model was the least expensive of the three models, at US$62 per patient per year. The fully automated model was $66 per patient per year, and the human assessment model was $77 per patient per year. The savings to the Singapore health system associated with switching to the semi-automated model are estimated to be $489 000, which is roughly 20% of the current annual screening cost. By 2050, Singapore is projected to have 1 million people with diabetes; at this time, the estimated annual savings would be $15 million.
INTERPRETATION: This study provides a strong economic rationale for using deep learning systems as an assistive tool to screen for diabetic retinopathy.
FUNDING: Ministry of Health, Singapore.
Label Included: 0

Title: Progress in examining cost-effectiveness of AI in diabetic retinopathy screening.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Depression, anxiety, pain and chronic opioid management in primary care: Type II effectiveness-implementation hybrid stepped wedge cluster randomized trial.
Abstract: Even though current prescribing trends reveal that high-dose opioid prescribing and opioid prescribing in general has decreased, sustained efforts are needed to help providers adopt and maintain safe prescribing behaviors. The purpose of this four-year type 2 effectiveness-implementation hybrid stepped wedge cluster randomized trial is to: (1) compare the clinical and cost effectiveness of electronic medical record-based clinical decision support [EMR-CDS] versus additional integrated, collaborative behavioral health [EMR-CDS + BHI-CCM] for opioid management of patients with co-morbid chronic non-cancer pain with depression or anxiety; and (2) examine facilitators and barriers to implementing these interventions within 35 primary care clinics in a integrated delivery health system. The EMR-CDS alerts providers to employ opioid risk mitigation and safe prescribing practices at the point of care. The BHI-CCM consists of primary care embedded community health workers for case management; licensed clinical social workers for cognitive behavioral therapy, and a clinical pharmacist for medication management who provide care management via telemedicine (virtual video or audio only visits) under the guidance of a consulting psychiatrist. The primary outcome is reduction in the percentage of patients with average daily opioid dose ≥50 mg morphine equivalent. Secondary outcomes include changes in service utilization, patient reported outcomes and processes of care. The investigators anticipate that study results will elucidate the role of technology versus care team optimization in changing opioid prescribing behaviors. The investigators further anticipate that integrated mental/behavioral health care will increase value-based care and the efficiency with which guideline concordant care is delivered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Temporal Trends and Sex Differences in Intensity of Healthcare at the End of Life in Adults With Heart Failure.
Abstract: Background Patients with chronic disease prefer an adequately supported death at home, but often die in the hospital. We assessed temporal trends and sex differences in healthcare intensity and location of death among decedents with heart failure. Methods and Results This was a retrospective cohort study of adults with heart failure who died between April 1, 2004 and March 31, 2017 in Ontario, Canada. We used population-based administrative databases to assess healthcare utilization during the last 6 months of life and applied multilevel multivariable logistic regression to assess whether sex was independently associated with location of death. Among 396 024 decedents with heart failure, mean (SD) age was 81.8 (10.7) years, 51.5% were women, and 53.4% had in-hospital deaths. From 2004 to 2016, there was an increase in patients receiving mechanical ventilation (15.1%-19.6%), hemodialysis (5.2%-6.8%), and cardiac revascularization (1.7%-2.3%). Relative to men, women spent fewer days in a hospital (mean, 16.4 versus 18.3; mean difference, 1.9; 95% CI, 1.7-2.0; P<0.001) and in an intensive care unit (mean, 2.1 versus 3.0; mean difference, 0.9; 95% CI, 0.8-0.9; P<0.001); and less commonly received mechanical ventilation (15.5% versus 20.8%; P<0.001); hemodialysis (4.8% versus 7.7%; P<0.001); or cardiac catheterization (2.8% versus 4.6%; P<0.001). Female sex was independently associated with lower odds of in-hospital death (odds ratio, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.87-0.89). Mean (SD) 6-month direct healthcare cost was greater for in-hospital ($52 349 [$55 649]) than out-of-hospital ($35 998 [$31 900]) death. Conclusions Among decedents with heart failure, invasive care in the last 6 months increased in prevalence over time but was less common in women, who had lower odds of dying in a hospital.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine Utilization in Neurosurgery During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Glimpse Into the Future?
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe telemedicine utilization in neurosurgery at a single tertiary institution to provide outpatient care during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, with 315 telemedicine visits performed by the neurosurgery department.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In response to the COVID-19 pandemic national stay-at-home orders and postponed elective surgeries, we converted upcoming clinic visits into telemedicine visits and rescheduled other patients thought not to be markedly affected by surgical postponement. We reviewed the charts of all patients who had telehealth visits from April 1 through April 30, 2020, and collected demographic information, diagnosis, type of visit, and whether they received surgery; a satisfaction questionnaire was also administered.
RESULTS: In March 2020, 94% (644 of 685) of the neurosurgery clinic visits were face-to-face, whereas in April 2020, 55% (315 of 573) of the visits were telemedicine (P<.001). In April, of the 315 telemedicine visits, 172 (55%) were phone consults and 143 (45%) video consults; 101 (32%) were new consults, 195 (62%) return visits, and 18 (6%) postoperative follow-up. New consults were more likely to be video with audio than return visits and postoperative follow-up (P<.001). Only 39 patients (12%) required surgery. Ninety-one percent of the questionnaire respondents were very likely to recommend telemedicine.
CONCLUSION: Rapid implementation of telemedicine to evaluate neurosurgery patients became an effective tool for preoperative consultation, postoperative and follow-up visits during the COVID-19 pandemic, and decreased risks of exposure to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 to patients and health care staff. Future larger studies should investigate the cost-effectiveness of telemedicine used to triage surgical from nonsurgical patients, potential cost-savings from reducing travel burdens and lost work time, improved access, reduced wait times, and impact on patient satisfaction.
Label Included: 0

Title: Disruptive Innovation in Dentistry: What It Is and What Could Be Next.
Abstract: Dentistry is a technically oriented profession, and the health care sector is significantly influenced by the ubiquitous trend of digitalization. Some of these digital developments have the potential to result in disruptive changes for dental practice, while others may turn out to be just a pipedream. This Discovery! essay focuses on innovations built on artificial intelligence (AI) as the center-technology influencing 1) dental eHealth data management, 2) clinical and technical health care applications, and 3) services and operations. AI systems enable personalized dental medicine workflows by analyzing all eHealth data gathered from an individual patient. Besides dental-specific data, this also includes genomic, proteomic, and metabolomic information and therefore facilitates optimized and personalized treatment strategies and risk management. Based on the power of AI, the triangular frame of "data"/"health care"/"service" is supplemented by technological advancements in the field of social media, Internet of things, augmented and virtual reality, rapid prototyping, and intraoral optical scanning as well as teledentistry. Innovation continues to be critical to tackle dental problems until its routine implementation based on sound scientific evidence. Novel technologies must be viewed critically in relation to the cost-benefit ratio and the ethical implications of a misleading diagnosis or treatment produced by AI algorithms. Highly sensitive eHealth data must be handled responsibly to enable the immense benefits of these technologies to be realized for society. The focus on patient-centered research and the development of personalized dental medicine have the potential to improve individual and public health, as well as clarify the interconnectivity of disease in a more cost-effective way.
Label Included: 0

Title: An Autonomy-Supportive Online Decision Aid to Assist Smokers in Choosing Evidence-Based Cessation Assistance: Development Process and Protocol of a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Decision aids (DAs) may be used to facilitate an autonomous, informed decision to cease smoking and promote the uptake of evidence-based cessation assistance (ie, behavioral support, nicotine replacement therapy, or prescription medication). However, knowledge is lacking regarding their effective elements and (cost-)effectiveness.
OBJECTIVE: We describe the development process of an online DA (called "VISOR") that helps smokers to choose evidence-based cessation assistance. Additionally, we provide a description of the protocol of an ongoing randomized controlled trial in which the DA containing an explicit value clarification method (VCM) and tailored advice is compared with a DA without an explicit VCM and tailored advice.
METHODS: The development of "VISOR" was based on the International Patient Decision Aid Standards guidelines. Viewpoints of end users (collected through 20 interviews with smokers) and clinical and scientific experts (assessed using 2 Delphi studies with 24 scientists and 38 clinicians) were assessed regarding cessation tool decision making and preferred DA content. These findings, together with principles from the Self-Determination Theory, served as input for the development of the online DA. A first DA prototype was alpha-tested in September 2019 and beta-tested for usability in December 2019; feedback was incorporated and resulted in a final version. The final DA contains (1) an information section, (2) an optional knowledge quiz, (3) a brief smoking assessment, (4) intuitive decision, (5) intermediate advice, (6) an explicit VCM, (7) tailored advice, and (8) access information. A randomized controlled trial is currently being conducted to assess the DA's (cost-)effectiveness compared to a DA that does not include the explicit VCM and the tailored advice; specifically, the DA's effect on smoking abstinence, uptake of evidence-based cessation assistance, smoking abstinence mediated through uptake of evidence-based cessation assistance, and decisional conflict are investigated. Participants are randomly allocated to receive access to 1 of the 2 DAs and are asked to complete 5 questionnaires (including the baseline questionnaire) over a period of 12 months. To evaluate the effects of the DA on the outcome measures, logistic and linear regression analyses as well as mediation analyses will be carried out. An economic evaluation will be performed to assess the cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Data regarding the effect of the VISOR DA are currently being collected, and data collection is expected to be concluded in 2021.
CONCLUSIONS: By making use of an iterative process that integrated different stakeholders' perspectives (including end users), we were able to systematically design an evidence-based DA. The study will contribute to the current knowledge regarding smoking cessation DA application, the added value of explicit VCMs, and the effect of behavioral and informed decision-making outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register NL8270; https://www.trialregister.nl/trial/8270.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/21772.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of a Contact Intervention and a Psychotherapeutic Program for Post-discharge Suicide Prevention.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of 2 strategies for post-discharge suicide prevention, an Enhanced Contact intervention based on repeated in-person and telephone contacts, and an individual 2-month long problem-solving Psychotherapy program, in comparison to facilitated access to outpatient care following a suicide attempt.
METHODS: We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis based on a decision tree between January and December 2019. Comparative effectiveness estimates were obtained from an observational study conducted between 2013 and 2017 in Madrid, Spain. Electronic health care records documented resource use (including extra-hospital emergency care, mortality, inpatient admission, and disability leave). Direct cost data were derived from Madrid's official list of public health care prices. Indirect cost data were derived from Spain's National Institute of Statistics.
RESULTS: Both augmentation strategies were more cost-effective than a single priority outpatient appointment considering reasonable thresholds of willingness to pay. Under the base-case scenario, Enhanced Contact and Psychotherapy incurred, respectively, €2,340 and 6,260 per averted attempt, compared to a single priority appointment. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses showed both augmentation strategies to remain cost-effective under several scenarios. Enhanced Contact was slightly cost minimizing in comparison to Psychotherapy (base-case scenario: €-196 per averted attempt).
CONCLUSIONS: Two post-discharge suicide prevention strategies based on Enhanced Contact and Psychotherapy were cost-effective in comparison to a single priority appointment. Increasing contacts between suicide attempters and mental health-care providers was slightly cost minimizing compared to psychotherapy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Study protocol randomised controlled trial comparison of cost-utility and cost-effectiveness of a face-to-face rehabilitation programme versus a telemedicine programme in the treatment of patients with chronic low back pain.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Chronic lower back pain is a highly prevalent medical condition in Western countries, which that incurs a considerable social and economic burden. Although prescription exercise at home for chronic pain has become a widely used alternative to reduce healthcare costs, the evidence regarding patient adherence and decreased in costs in European countries is scarce and inconclusive. The objective of this study is to examine the cost-utility and cost-effectiveness in patients with chronic lower back pain treated with the McKenzie Method and electroanalgesia via a telemedicine programme versus a face-to-face programme.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This study reports the protocol for a randomised, two-arm, multicentre, parallel controlled trial. A total of 540 patients with chronic lower back pain (onset time ≥3 months, Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire ≥4) will be recruited in three hospitals in Andalusia. Participants will be assigned to one of two groups (n=270, respectively) to receive electroanalgesia and Mckenzie method exercises through a telemedicine or a face-to-face programme. A total of 24 sessions will be administered three times a week for 8 weeks. Since the study design does not allow participant blinding, the outcome assessor and the statistician will be blinded. Use of helth care resources and costs due to work absenteeism will be captured and analysed. In addition, pain, intensity, fear of movement, quality of life and strength of the core muscle and anteflexion lumbar will be recorded at 2 and 6 months after the start of treatment.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Human Research and Local Ethics Committee of the 'Hospital Complex Torrecárdenas of Almeria, University Hospital of Granada and Virgen Macarena de Sevilla Hospital-Andalusian Health Service'. Study ﬁndings will be released to the research, clinical and health service through publication in international journals and conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT04266366.
Label Included: 0

Title: Smart Insulin Pens are Associated with Improved Clinical Outcomes at Lower Cost Versus Standard-of-Care Treatment of Type 1 Diabetes in Sweden: A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Real-world evidence has demonstrated improved glycemic control and insulin management following introduction of smart insulin pens in a Swedish type 1 diabetes (T1D) population. To understand the implications for healthcare costs and expected health outcomes, this analysis evaluated the long-term cost-effectiveness of introducing smart insulin pens to standard-of-care T1D treatment (standard care) from a Swedish societal perspective.
METHODS: Clinical outcomes and healthcare costs (in 2018 Swedish krona, SEK) were projected over patients' lifetimes using the IQVIA CORE Diabetes Model to estimate cost-effectiveness. Clinical data and baseline characteristics for the simulated cohort were informed by population data and a prospective, noninterventional study of a smart insulin pen in a Swedish T1D population. This analysis captured direct and indirect costs, mortality, and the impact of diabetes-related complications on quality of life.
RESULTS: Over patients' lifetimes, smart insulin pen use was associated with per-patient improvements in mean discounted life expectancy (+ 0.90 years) and quality-adjusted life expectancy (+ 1.15 quality-adjusted life-years), in addition to mean cost savings (direct, SEK 124,270; indirect, SEK 373,725), versus standard care. A lower frequency and delayed onset of complications drove projected improvements in quality-adjusted life expectancy and lower costs with smart insulin pens versus standard care. Overall, smart insulin pens were a dominant treatment option relative to standard care across all base-case and sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of smart insulin pens was projected to improve clinical outcomes at lower costs relative to standard care in a Swedish T1D population and represents a good use of healthcare resources in Sweden.
Label Included: 0

Title: Recruitment of Youth Living With HIV to Optimize Adherence and Virologic Suppression: Testing the Design of Technology-Based Community Health Nursing to Improve Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) Clinical Trials.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite advances in HIV diagnosis and treatment, adolescents and young adults 12-25 years old have high HIV incidence, poor engagement and retention in treatment, and low rates of adherence and virologic suppression when compared to their older counterparts. HIV has emerged as a chronic disease for which antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence is critical for virologic suppression and long-term survival. Virologic suppression has been elusive for many youth with HIV (YHIV). Novel strategies designed to facilitate health care systems' support for YHIV between medical visits are essential for improving ART adherence, virologic suppression, and long-term survival.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of a technology-enhanced community health nursing intervention (TECH2CHECK) to a standard of care (SOC) control group for improving ART adherence and subsequent viral suppression using a randomized trial design. The objectives are to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and cost-effectiveness of TECH2CHECK as compared to SOC for management of HIV in the outpatient setting and to examine the sustainability of self-care behavior, adherence, and virologic suppression among youth following the intervention period.
METHODS: We will recruit 120 adherence-challenged YHIV being followed at clinics specializing in HIV care in the Baltimore-Washington metropolitan area and in Jacksonville. Eligible participants complete an audio, computer-assisted self-interview and are randomized to either TECH2CHECK intervention or the SOC (60 participants in each arm). The primary outcome of interest is virologic suppression (viral load <20 copies/mL) and improved treatment adherence. Participants in the intervention arm receive community health nursing visits at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 10 weeks, 14 weeks, and 26 weeks. The intervention arm also receives SMS messaging comprising daily adherence and appointment reminders and positive reinforcement for medication adherence daily for 2 weeks, on alternate days for 2 weeks, thrice weekly for 1 month, weekly for 3 months, and every 2 weeks for the rest of the study duration. The control group receives appointment reminders and SOC per clinic protocol. Exploratory analysis will be conducted to determine differences in medication adherence and virologic suppression in the 2 arms and to assess cost-effectiveness and study feasibility and acceptability.
RESULTS: In the first 23 months of the study (July 2018-April 2020), 56 (55%) of 102 eligible patients were enrolled and randomized. At present, participating youths are primarily African American (53/56, 95%), male (37/56, 66%), and ≥18 years old (53/56, 95%). Follow-up study visits, as required per the protocol, have been completed by 77% (43/56), 94% (45/48), 95% (37/39), 96% (24/25), and 100% (10/10) of participants at the 1-month, 3-month, 6-month, 12-month, and 18-month follow-ups, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Preliminary accrual and retention data suggest that TECH2CHECK is feasible and acceptable.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03600103 https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03600103.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/23480.
Label Included: 0

Title: Dental Care Access and the Elderly: What Is the Role of Teledentistry? A Systematic Review.
Abstract: A high level of unmet oral health needs is very common among elderly people. In a society that is getting older and that has been hit so hard by the coronavirus pandemic, the development of new strategies aimed at enhancing general and oral health status should be crucial in order to promote healthy aging. The aim of this systematic review is to assess the feasibility of Teledentistry in communities or in a domiciliary setting where elderly people live. A structured and systematic research was performed on the major electronic databases for studies published in English until 30 June 2020: the PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, Scopus, and CINAHL databases. A total of 13 articles were identified through database searching using combinations of keywords. Out of 13 papers, eight abstracts were reviewed to assess if they were coherent with the aim of the study, and full texts were retrieved. After abstract reviews, seven articles were selected for closer inspection. Of these, six were assessed for eligibility. Four papers were aimed at assessing patients and health practitioners experiences about Teledentistry, three studies reported a cost analysis and cost description of Teledentistry in residential aged care facilities, and two studies investigated the feasibility and accuracy of Teledentistry for diagnosis dental pathology. The implementation of Teledentistry in residential aged care facilities and in home-assistance programs could be a viable tool for the management of oral care in people who cannot access dental care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Decision Support Capabilities of Telemedicine in Emergency Prehospital Care: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine offers a unique opportunity to improve coordination and administration for urgent patient care remotely. In an emergency setting, it has been used to support first responders by providing telephone or video consultation with specialists at hospitals and through the exchange of prehospital patient information. This technological solution is evolving rapidly, yet there is a concern that it is being implemented without a demonstrated clinical need and effectiveness as well as without a thorough economic evaluation.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective is to systematically review whether the clinical outcomes achieved, as reported in the literature, favor telemedicine decision support for medical interventions during prehospital care.
METHODS: This systematic review included peer-reviewed journal articles. Searches of 7 databases and relevant reviews were conducted. Eligibility criteria consisted of studies that covered telemedicine as data- and information-sharing and two-way teleconsultation platforms, with the objective of supporting medical decisions (eg, diagnosis, treatment, and receiving hospital decision) in a prehospital emergency setting. Simulation studies and studies that included pediatric populations were excluded. The procedures in this review followed the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) statement. The Risk Of Bias In Non-randomised Studies-of Interventions (ROBINS-I) tool was used for the assessment of risk of bias. The results were synthesized based on predefined aspects of medical decisions that are made in a prehospital setting, which include diagnostic decision support, receiving facility decisions, and medical directions for treatment. All data extractions were done by at least two reviewers independently.
RESULTS: Out of 42 full-text reviews, 7 were found eligible. Diagnostic support and medical direction and decision for treatments were often reported. A key finding of this review was the high agreement between prehospital diagnoses via telemedicine and final in-hospital diagnoses, as supported by quantitative evidence. However, a majority of the articles described the clinical value of having access to remote experts without robust quantitative data. Most telemedicine solutions were evaluated within a feasibility or short-term preliminary study. In general, the results were positive for telemedicine use; however, biases, due to preintervention confounding factors and a lack of documentation on quality assurance and protocol for telemedicine activation, make it difficult to determine the direct effect on patient outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The information-sharing capacity of telemedicine enables access to remote experts to support medical decision making on scene or in prolonged field care. The influence of human and technology factors on patient care is poorly understood and documented.
Label Included: 0

Title: Coverage outcomes (effects), costs, cost-effectiveness, and equity of two combinations of long-lasting insecticidal net (LLIN) distribution channels in Kenya: a two-arm study under operational conditions.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Malaria-endemic countries distribute long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) through combined channels with ambitious, universal coverage (UC) targets. Kenya has used eight channels with variable results. To inform national decision-makers, this two-arm study compares coverage (effects), costs, cost-effectiveness, and equity of two combinations of LLIN distribution channels in Kenya.
METHODS: Two combinations of five delivery channels were compared as 'intervention' and 'control' arms. The intervention arm comprised four channels: community health volunteer (CHV), antenatal and child health clinics (ANCC), social marketing (SM) and commercial outlets (CO). The control arm consisted of the intervention arm channels except mass campaign (MC) replaced CHV. Primary analysis used random sample household survey data, service-provider costs, and voucher or LLIN distribution data to compare between-arm effects, costs, cost-effectiveness, and equity. Secondary analyses compared costs and equity by channel.
RESULTS: The multiple distribution channels used in both arms of the study achieved high LLIN ownership and use. The intervention arm had significantly lower reported LLIN use the night before the survey (84·8% [95% CI 83·0-86·4%] versus 89·2% [95% CI 87·8-90·5%], p < 0·0001), higher unit costs ($10·56 versus $7·17), was less cost-effective ($86·44, 95% range $75·77-$102·77 versus $69·20, 95% range $63·66-$77·23) and more inequitable (Concentration index [C.Ind] = 0·076 [95% CI 0·057 to 0·095 versus C.Ind = 0.049 [95% CI 0·030 to 0·067]) than the control arm. Unit cost per LLIN distributed was lowest for MC ($3·10) followed by CHV ($10·81) with both channels being moderately inequitable in favour of least-poor households.
CONCLUSION: In line with best practices, the multiple distribution channel model achieved high LLIN ownership and use in this Kenyan study setting. The control-arm combination, which included MC, was the most cost-effective way to increase UC at household level. Mass campaigns, combined with continuous distribution channels, are an effective and cost-effective way to achieve UC in Kenya. The findings are relevant to other countries and donors seeking to optimise LLIN distribution.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The assignment of the intervention was not at the discretion of the investigators; therefore, this study did not require registration.
Label Included: 0

Title: Early Palliative Home Care versus Hospital Care for Patients with Hematologic Malignancies: A Cost-Effectiveness Study.
Abstract: Background: There is paucity of data on the potential value of early palliative home care for patients with hematologic malignancies. Objective: To compare costs, use of resources, and clinical outcomes between an early palliative home care program and standard hospital care for active-advanced or terminal phase patients. Patients and Methods: In this real-life, nonrandomized comparative study, the allocation of advanced/terminal phase patients to either home or hospital was based on pragmatic considerations. Analysis focused on resources use, events requiring blood unit transfusions or parenteral therapy, patient-reported symptom burden, mean weekly cost of care (MWC), cost-minimization difference, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Results: Of 119 patients, 59 patients cared at home were more debilitated and had a shorter survival than the 60 in hospital group (p = 0.001). Nevertheless, symptom burden was similar in both groups. At home the mean weekly number of transfusions (1.45) was lower than that at hospital (2.77). Higher rate of infections occurred at hospital (54%) versus home (21%; <0.001). MWC for hospitalization was significantly higher in a 3:1 ratio versus home care. Compared with hospital, domiciliary assistance produced a weekly saving of € 2314.9 for the health provider, with a charge of € 85.9 for the family, and was cost-effective by an ICER of € -7013.9 of prevented days of care for avoided infections. Conclusions: Current findings suggest that costs of early palliative home care for patients with hematologic malignancies are lower than standard hospital care costs. Domiciliary assistance may also be cost-effective by reducing the number of days to treat infections.
Label Included: 0

Title: Exploring the potential value of satellite remote sensing to monitor chlorophyll-a for US lakes and reservoirs.
Abstract: Assessment of chlorophyll-a, an algal pigment, typically measured by field and laboratory in situ analyses, is used to estimate algal abundance and trophic status in lakes and reservoirs. In situ-based monitoring programs can be expensive, may not be spatially, and temporally comprehensive and results may not be available in the timeframe needed to make some management decisions, but can be more accurate, precise, and specific than remotely sensed measures. Satellite remotely sensed chlorophyll-a offers the potential for more geographically and temporally dense data collection to support estimates when used to augment or substitute for in situ measures. In this study, we compare available chlorophyll-a data from in situ and satellite imagery measures at the national scale and perform a cost analysis of these different monitoring approaches. The annual potential avoided costs associated with increasing the availability of remotely sensed chlorophyll-a values were estimated to range between $5.7 and $316 million depending upon the satellite program used and the timeframe considered. We also compared sociodemographic characteristics of the regions (both public and private lands) covered by both remote sensing and in situ data to check for any systematic differences across areas that have monitoring data. This analysis underscores the importance of continued support for both field-based in situ monitoring and satellite sensor programs that provide complementary information to water quality managers, given increased challenges associated with eutrophication, nuisance, and harmful algal bloom events.
Label Included: 0

Title: Recapitulating the Bayesian framework for neurosurgical outpatient care and a cost-benefit analysis of telemedicine for socioeconomically disadvantaged patients in the Philippines during the pandemic.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In the Philippines during recent months, a neurosurgical center that caters primarily to socioeconomically disadvantaged patients has encountered unprecedented changes in practice patterns brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, the usual task of outpatient care has shifted to the telemedicine format, bringing along all of its attendant advantages and gargantuan challenges. The authors sought to determine the responsiveness of this telemedicine setup to the needs of their disadvantaged patients and explored the application of Bayesian inference to enhance the use of teleconsultation in daily clinical decision-making.
METHODS: The authors used the following methods to assess the telemedicine setup used in a low-resource setting during the pandemic: 1) a cross-sectional survey of patients who participated in a medical consultation via telemedicine during the 16-week period from March 16, 2020, to July 15, 2020; 2) a cost-benefit analysis of the use of telemedicine by patients; and 3) a case illustration of a Bayesian approach application unique to the teleconsultation scenario.
RESULTS: Of the 272 patient beneficiaries of telemedicine in a 16-week period, 57 responded to the survey. The survey responses regarding neurosurgical outpatient care through telemedicine yielded high ratings of utility for the patients and their caregivers. According to 64% of respondents, the affordability of the telemedicine setup also prevented them from borrowing money from others, among other adverse life events prevented. There were realized financial gains on the part of the patients in terms of cost savings and protection from further impoverishment. The benefit-cost ratio was 3.51 for the patients, signifying that the benefits outweighed the costs. An actual teleconsultation case vignette was reported that is meant to be instructive and contributory to the preparedness of the neurosurgeon on the provider end of the service delivery.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine holds promise as a viable and safe method for health service delivery during the pandemic. In the setting of a health system that is continually challenged by shortages of resources, this study shows that an effective telemedicine setup can come with high benefit-cost ratios and quality of care, along with the assurance of patient satisfaction. The potential for high-quality care can be enhanced by the inclusion of the Bayesian framework to the basic toolkit of remote clinical assessment. When confronted with choices in terms of differential diagnosis and tests, the rigor of a simple application of the Bayesian framework can minimize costs arising from uncertainties.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use and Cost-Effectiveness of a Telehealth Service at a Centralized COVID-19 Quarantine Center in Taiwan: Cohort Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telehealth is a recommended method for monitoring the progression of nonsevere infections in patients with COVID-19. However, telehealth has not been widely implemented to monitor SARS-CoV-2 infection in quarantined individuals. Moreover, studies on the cost-effectiveness of quarantine measures during the COVID-19 pandemic are scarce.
OBJECTIVE: In this cohort study, we aimed to use telehealth to monitor COVID-19 infections in 217 quarantined Taiwanese travelers and to analyze the cost-effectiveness of the quarantine program.
METHODS: Travelers were quarantined for 14 days at the Taiwan Yangmingshan quarantine center and monitored until they were discharged. The travelers' clinical symptoms were evaluated twice daily. A multidisciplinary medical team used the telehealth system to provide timely assistance for ill travelers. The cost of the mandatory quarantine was calculated according to data from the Ministry of Health and Welfare of Taiwan.
RESULTS: All 217 quarantined travelers tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 upon admission to the quarantine center. During the quarantine, 28/217 travelers (12.9%) became ill and were evaluated via telehealth. Three travelers with fever were hospitalized after telehealth assessment, and subsequent tests for COVID-19 were negative for all three patients. The total cost incurred during the quarantine was US $193,938, which equated to US $894 per individual.
CONCLUSIONS: Telehealth is an effective instrument for monitoring COVID-19 infection in quarantined travelers and could help provide timely disease management for people who are ill. It is imperative to screen and quarantine international travelers for SARS-CoV-2 infection to reduce the nationwide spread of COVID-19.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs of using evidence-based implementation strategies for behavioral health integration in a large primary care system.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe the cost of using evidence-based implementation strategies for sustained behavioral health integration (BHI) involving population-based screening, assessment, and identification at 25 primary care sites of Kaiser Permanente Washington (2015-2018).
DATA SOURCES/STUDY SETTING: Project records, surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics compensation data.
STUDY DESIGN: Labor and nonlabor costs incurred by three implementation strategies: practice coaching, electronic health records clinical decision support, and performance feedback.
DATA COLLECTION/EXTRACTION METHODS: Personnel time spent on these strategies was estimated for five broad roles: (a) project leaders and administrative support, (b) practice coaches, (c) clinical decision support programmers, (d) performance metric programmers, and (e) primary care local implementation team members.
PRINCIPAL FINDING: Implementation involved 286 persons, 18 131 person-hours, costing $1 587 139 or $5 per primary care visit with screening or $38 per primary care visit identifying depression, suicidal thoughts and/or alcohol or substance use disorders, in a single year. The majority of person-hours was devoted to project leadership (35%) and practice coaches (34%), and 36% of costs were for the first three sites.
CONCLUSIONS: When spread across patients screened in a single year, BHI implementation costs were well within the range for commonly used diagnostic assessments in primary care (eg, laboratory tests). This suggests that implementation costs alone should not be a substantial barrier to population-based BHI.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote Delivery of the Satellite Virtual Fracture Clinic - a Pilot Report of the First 500 Cases.
Abstract: Presenting to the fracture clinic carries economic, social and societal consequences. The virtual fracture clinic (VFC) has proven to be a safe, patient-focused, cost-effective means of delivering trauma care, whilst reducing unnecessary clinic attendances. Within our institution, a Satellite VFC was established, so as to accommodate an offsite referring emergency department. The VFC database was accessed to identify the first 500 patients who were referred to the Satellite VFC. The decision made for each patient, the rate of returns to the clinic, and the rate of referrals requiring surgical intervention, following discussion at the VFC, ,were identified. A cost analysis and cost comparison was carried out between the Satellite VFC and the traditional "face to face" fracture clinic. There were 500 patients referred to the Satellite VFC within the study period. Of such patients, 288 (58%) were discharged directly following review at the Satellite VFC, 141 patients (28%) were referred to physiotherapy, 50 (10%) were redirected to the trauma clinic, 11 (2%) were sent directly to hand therapy, and 10 (2%) were sent to the ED review clinic. Patients who returned to the fracture clinic accounted for 3.8% of all referrals, and 0.2% of all referrals necessitated surgical intervention. This pilot initiative saved the Dublin Midlands Hospital Group over €50,000. The Satellite VFC is the first of its kind in the literature. Rural communities worldwide would benefit from remote orthopaedic management of suitable fracture patterns. The true value of the Satellite VFC process comes from its use of robust patient care pathways, rationalising resource use and minimising patient travel, whilst demonstrating reliable outcomes and promoting safety.
Label Included: 0

Title: Outpatient physiotherapy versus home-based rehabilitation for patients at risk of poor outcomes after knee arthroplasty: CORKA RCT.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Over 100,000 primary knee arthroplasty operations are undertaken annually in the UK. Around 15-30% of patients do not report a good outcome. Better rehabilitation strategies may improve patient-reported outcomes.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the outcomes from a traditional outpatient physiotherapy model with those from a home-based rehabilitation programme for people assessed as being at risk of a poor outcome after knee arthroplasty.
DESIGN: An individually randomised, two-arm controlled trial with a blinded outcome assessment, a parallel health economic evaluation and a nested qualitative study.
SETTING: The trial took place in 14 NHS physiotherapy departments.
PARTICIPANTS: People identified as being at high risk of a poor outcome after knee arthroplasty.
INTERVENTIONS: A multicomponent home-based rehabilitation package delivered by rehabilitation assistants with supervision from qualified therapists compared with usual-care outpatient physiotherapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the Late Life Function and Disability Instrument at 12 months. Secondary outcomes were the Oxford Knee Score (a disease-specific measure of function); Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Quality of Life subscale; Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly; EuroQol-5 Dimensions, five-level version; and physical function assessed using the Figure-of-8 Walk Test, 30-Second Chair Stand Test and Single Leg Stance. Data on the use of health-care services, time off work and informal care were collected using participant diaries.
RESULTS: In total, 621 participants were randomised. A total of 309 participants were assigned to the COmmunity based Rehabilitation after Knee Arthroplasty (CORKA) home-based rehabilitation programme, receiving a median of five treatment sessions (interquartile range 4-7 sessions). A total of 312 participants were assigned to usual care, receiving a median of four sessions (interquartile range 2-6 sessions). The primary outcome, Late Life Function and Disability Instrument function total score at 12 months, was collected for 279 participants (89%) in the home-based CORKA group and 287 participants (92%) in the usual-care group. No clinically or statistically significant difference was found between the groups (intention-to-treat adjusted difference 0.49 points, 95% confidence interval -0.89 to 1.88 points; p = 0.48). There were no statistically significant differences between the groups in any of the patient-reported or physical secondary outcome measures at 6 or 12 months post randomisation. The health economic analysis found that the CORKA intervention was cheaper to provide than usual care (£66 less per participant). Total societal costs (combining health-care costs and other costs) were lower for the CORKA intervention than usual care (£316 less per participant). Adopting a societal perspective, CORKA had a 75% probability of being cost-effective at a threshold of £30,000 per quality-adjusted life-year. Adopting the narrower health and social care perspective, CORKA had a 43% probability of being cost-effective at the same threshold.
LIMITATIONS: The interventions were of short duration and were set within current commissioning guidance for UK physiotherapy. Participants and treating therapists could not be blinded.
CONCLUSIONS: This randomised controlled trial found no important differences in outcomes when post-arthroplasty rehabilitation was delivered using a home-based, rehabilitation assistant-delivered rehabilitation package or a traditional outpatient model. However, the health economic evaluation found that when adopting a societal perspective, the CORKA home-based intervention was cost-saving and more effective than, and thus dominant over, usual care, owing to reduced time away from paid employment for this group. Further research could look at identifying the risk of poor outcome and further evaluation of a cost-effective treatment, including the workforce model to deliver it.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN13517704.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 24, No. 65. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: First steps in PROMs and PREMs collection in Wales as part of the prudent and value-based healthcare agenda.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Patients are experts in their own health and should be treated as equal partners in their care. Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) are an effective way of gathering patient feedback and can facilitate effectiveness and cost-effectiveness analysis to improve decision making and service improvement. The PROMs, PREMs & Effectiveness Programme was initiated in 2016 and aimed to develop an electronic platform to facilitate collection of PROMs and Patient-reported experience measures (PREMs) from secondary care patients across Wales.
METHODS: We worked with all Health Boards in Wales, the NHS Wales Informatics Service (NWIS), and Cedar (a healthcare technology research centre) to identify and meet technical requirements to develop a platform which is fit for purpose. Patient groups were included throughout the development to gather feedback and for extensive testing. Clinical teams helped identify the most appropriate tools, with licences, translations and electronic formatting issues being managed centrally.
RESULTS: The developed platform is integrated with patient administration systems minimising the need for manual input, with processes in place to allow automatic collection triggers according to nationally agreed schedules. We have over 30 nationally agreed PROMs 'pathways' with over 110,000 PROMs collected to date. Responses are fed back to clinicians via the electronic patient record and to each health board via feeds to the national data warehouse, making data easily accessible to different teams, maximising use and application.
DISCUSSION: The national platform has provided a co-ordinated approach to PROMs collection in Wales, offering an effective means of communicating with patients outside the traditional clinic visit.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs and benefits of multifactorial falls prevention in nursing homes in the Netherlands.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate whether the implementation of a multifactorial falls intervention in nursing homes is cost-beneficial and alleviates the professional workload.
DESIGN: A comprehensive quantitative model was developed to calculate the impact of investments in multifactorial falls prevention in nursing homes in the Netherlands, comparing the fall incidence using intervention strategies in 1000 nursing home residents with the conditions of usual care over a five-year timeline.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: We built a model combining several data sources regarding falls and injury prevalence in nursing home residents, health care costs, intervention costs and effectiveness, and demographic statistics.
MEASURES: The primary outcomes were number of falls and injuries, treatment hours and cost.
RESULTS: In the nursing home setting, a baseline scenario was calculated with 1471 falls incidents resulting in 345 injuries per year. The mean cost of injury related treatment and care was calculated 860 thousand euro per year and €4.63 million in five years. Implementing multifactorial intervention over five years, costing 702 thousand euro, resulted in savings in health care costs of €2.0 million, of which €1.6 million was saved in nursing home injury care. The benefits outweighed the costs: each euro invested was compensated by 2.86 euro benefit in total care, 2.31 benefit in nursing home care. Yearly 3050 nursing hours, 3100 paramedical care hours and 760 h of physician care were saved.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Implementation of customized multifactorial interventions provided by multidisciplinary teams is cost-beneficial in reduction of falls in nursing homes. The CBA model gives valuable information about the advantageous consequences (i.e. health benefits, financial benefits and reduced workload of staff) of falls prevention in nursing homes and can provide guidance to the management in structural implementation of multifactorial falls prevention.
Label Included: 0

Title: Adding web-based behavioural support to exercise referral schemes for inactive adults with chronic health conditions: the e-coachER RCT.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is modest evidence that exercise referral schemes increase physical activity in inactive individuals with chronic health conditions. There is a need to identify additional ways to improve the effects of exercise referral schemes on long-term physical activity.
OBJECTIVES: To determine if adding the e-coachER intervention to exercise referral schemes is more clinically effective and cost-effective in increasing physical activity after 1 year than usual exercise referral schemes.
DESIGN: A pragmatic, multicentre, two-arm randomised controlled trial, with a mixed-methods process evaluation and health economic analysis. Participants were allocated in a 1 : 1 ratio to either exercise referral schemes plus e-coachER (intervention) or exercise referral schemes alone (control).
SETTING: Patients were referred to exercise referral schemes in Plymouth, Birmingham and Glasgow.
PARTICIPANTS: There were 450 participants aged 16-74 years, with a body mass index of 30-40 kg/m2, with hypertension, prediabetes, type 2 diabetes, lower limb osteoarthritis or a current/recent history of treatment for depression, who were also inactive, contactable via e-mail and internet users.
INTERVENTION: e-coachER was designed to augment exercise referral schemes. Participants received a pedometer and fridge magnet with physical activity recording sheets, and a user guide to access the web-based support in the form of seven 'steps to health'. e-coachER aimed to build the use of behavioural skills (e.g. self-monitoring) while strengthening favourable beliefs in the importance of physical activity, competence, autonomy in physical activity choices and relatedness. All participants were referred to a standard exercise referral scheme.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE: Minutes of moderate and vigorous physical activity in ≥ 10-minute bouts measured by an accelerometer over 1 week at 12 months, worn ≥ 16 hours per day for ≥ 4 days including ≥ 1 weekend day.
SECONDARY OUTCOMES: Other accelerometer-derived physical activity measures, self-reported physical activity, exercise referral scheme attendance and EuroQol-5 Dimensions, five-level version, and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale scores were collected at 4 and 12 months post randomisation.
RESULTS: Participants had a mean body mass index of 32.6 (standard deviation) 4.4 kg/m2, were referred primarily for weight loss and were mostly confident self-rated information technology users. Primary outcome analysis involving those with usable data showed a weak indicative effect in favour of the intervention group (n = 108) compared with the control group (n = 124); 11.8 weekly minutes of moderate and vigorous physical activity (95% confidence interval -2.1 to 26.0 minutes; p = 0.10). Sixty-four per cent of intervention participants logged on at least once; they gave generally positive feedback on the web-based support. The intervention had no effect on other physical activity outcomes, exercise referral scheme attendance (78% in the control group vs. 75% in the intervention group) or EuroQol-5 Dimensions, five-level version, or Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale scores, but did enhance a number of process outcomes (i.e. confidence, importance and competence) compared with the control group at 4 months, but not at 12 months. At 12 months, the intervention group incurred an additional mean cost of £439 (95% confidence interval -£182 to £1060) compared with the control group, but generated more quality-adjusted life-years (mean 0.026, 95% confidence interval 0.013 to 0.040), with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of an additional £16,885 per quality-adjusted life-year.
LIMITATIONS: A significant proportion (46%) of participants were not included in the primary analysis because of study withdrawal and insufficient device wear-time, so the results must be interpreted with caution. The regression model fit for the primary outcome was poor because of the considerable proportion of participants [142/243 (58%)] who recorded no instances of ≥ 10-minute bouts of moderate and vigorous physical activity at 12 months post randomisation.
FUTURE WORK: The design and rigorous evaluation of cost-effective and scalable ways to increase exercise referral scheme uptake and maintenance of moderate and vigorous physical activity are needed among patients with chronic conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding e-coachER to usual exercise referral schemes had only a weak indicative effect on long-term rigorously defined, objectively assessed moderate and vigorous physical activity. The provision of the e-coachER support package led to an additional cost and has a 63% probability of being cost-effective based on the UK threshold of £30,000 per quality-adjusted life-year. The intervention did improve some process outcomes as specified in our logic model.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN15644451.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 24, No. 63. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: A review of evaluation approaches for telemental health programs.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Although studies have examined the effectiveness of telemental health programs, optimal approaches for their evaluation remain unclear. We sought to review the outcomes used to evaluate telemental health programs.
METHODS: We conducted a literature search in PubMed and Google Scholar for peer-reviewed studies published between January 2010 until October 2019, and we excluded review articles, opinion papers, presentations, abstracts, and program report without data.
RESULTS: 1310 articles were identified, 34 of which were reviewed. Studies used a combination of non-clinical and clinical outcomes, most commonly engagement and impact rates, and standardised clinical measures. Very few studies examined technological feasibility, cost-effectiveness, and qualitative satisfaction reports.
CONCLUSIONS: This review is the first to summarise approaches to evaluate telemental health programs. Strengths and weaknesses of the evaluation outcomes are discussed in this review, highlighting essential factors that should be taken into consideration when developing a standardised framework for the evaluation of future telemental health programs.KEY POINTSThe methods used to evaluate telemental health programs are varied and no gold-standard for measurement of success exists.Clinical and non-clinical outcomes are being used to evaluate telemental health programs.More emphasis should be placed on feasibility measures such as cost-effectiveness.Therapeutic alliance should be a crucial part of evaluation of any telemental health program.Longer follow up times and larger sample sizes, as well as more diverse populations, are needed to generalise outcomes.Utilisation of clinical tools to assess success should be limited to standardised measures commonly used in clinical practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home Narrowband Ultraviolet B Phototherapy for Photoresponsive Skin Conditions: A Health Technology Assessment.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Skin conditions are photoresponsive if they respond to ultraviolet (UV) radiation with partial or complete clearing. Ultraviolet phototherapy is performed by exposing the skin to UV radiation on a regular basis under medical supervision. Three types of UV radiation are used to treat photoresponsive skin conditions: broadband ultraviolet B (BB-UVB), psoralen plus ultraviolet A (PUVA), and narrowband ultraviolet B (NB-UVB). Narrowband UVB phototherapy is generally more effective than BB-UVB and safer than PUVA in the management of several photoresponsive skin conditions. While typically performed in an outpatient clinic setting, home NB-UVB phototherapy may be a viable option for people with limited access to outpatient treatment. We conducted a health technology assessment of home NB-UVB phototherapy for people with photoresponsive skin conditions that included an evaluation of the effectiveness, safety, cost-effectiveness, and budget impact of publicly funding home NB-UVB phototherapy, and patient preferences and values.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search of the clinical evidence. We assessed the risk of bias of each included study using version 2 of the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool for randomized studies, and we assessed the quality of the body of evidence according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) Working Group criteria. We performed a systematic economic literature search and conducted a cost-utility analysis with a 10-year horizon from a public payer perspective. The cost-utility analysis was conducted for psoriasis based on the available clinical evidence. We also analyzed the budget impact of publicly funding home NB-UVB phototherapy in people with photoresponsive skin conditions in Ontario. To contextualize the potential value of NB-UVB phototherapy, we spoke with people with photoresponsive skin conditions.
RESULTS: We included one randomized controlled trial in the clinical evidence review. We found that home NB-UVB phototherapy is at least as effective as outpatient clinic NB-UVB phototherapy for the treatment of mild to severe psoriasis (the only photoresponsive skin condition investigated in the included study). In the included study, 82% of participants were treated at home, compared with 79% treated in an outpatient clinic setting (many participants had experience with both treatment settings). They demonstrated an improvement in baseline Psoriasis Area and Severity Index 50 (mean difference 2.8%, 95% confidence interval -8.6% to 14.2%), with the mean difference exceeding the preset noninferiority margin of -15%. Similar results were observed for other psoriasis area and severity indices (GRADE: Moderate). Episodes of mild erythema, burning sensation, severe erythema, and blistering were reported in both treatment groups, but were too few to allow a comparative safety assessment (GRADE: Low).The primary economic evaluation showed that home NB-UVB phototherapy is more costly (incremental cost $4,509) and has higher quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs; incremental QALY 0.29) than outpatient clinic NB-UVB. Our best estimate of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of home NB-UVB compared with outpatient clinic NB-UVB is $15,675 per QALY gained. The probability of home NB-UVB being cost-effective versus outpatient clinic NB-UVB is 77% at a willingness-to-pay of $50,000 per QALY gained. Publicly funding home NB-UVB phototherapy in the psoriasis population would lead to about $0.7 million each year and a total 5-year net budget impact of about $3.3 million. Publicly funding home treatment for people with photoresponsive skin conditions would lead to about $1.3 million each year and a total 5-year net budget impact of $6.3 million; however, this scenario accounted for the cost of phototherapy only (it did not include treatment-specific medical costs for conditions other than psoriasis).People with photoresponsive skin conditions with whom we spoke viewed home NB-UVB phototherapy as beneficial for those with health conditions that make it difficult to travel, for those with busy schedules, and for those who may not have the means to pay for travel to clinics.
CONCLUSIONS: Home NB-UVB phototherapy is at least as effective as outpatient clinic NB-UVB phototherapy for the treatment of mild to severe psoriasis (GRADE: Moderate). We are uncertain if adverse events happen more often or less often with home NB-UVB phototherapy than outpatient clinic NB-UVB phototherapy (GRADE: Low).Home NB-UVB phototherapy has an ICER of $15,675 per QALY gained, and the probability of home NB-UVB phototherapy being cost-effective is 77% at a willingness-to-pay of $50,000 per QALY gained. When accounting for the cost of phototherapy and other psoriasis-specific treatment costs (e.g., physician visits and adjuvant treatments), publicly funding home NB-UVB phototherapy in the psoriasis population would lead to a total 5-year net budget impact of about $3.3 million. Funding home NB-UVB phototherapy to people with photoresponsive skin conditions would lead to a total 5-year net budget impact of $6.3 million.People with photoresponsive skin conditions with whom we spoke viewed both outpatient clinic and home NB-UVB phototherapy to be effective treatment options.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-based subcutaneous immunoglobulin for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy patients: A Swiss cost-minimization analysis.
Abstract: PURPOSE: To compare the cost of two patient management strategies with similar efficacies for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) patients in the chronic phase: hospital-based IV immunoglobulin G (IVIg) and home-based subcutaneous immunoglobulin G (SCIg) associated with an interprofessional drug therapy management programme (initial training and follow-up).
METHODS: A 48-week model-based cost-minimization analysis from a societal perspective was performed. Resources included immunoglobulin (IVIg: 1 g/kg/3 weeks; SCIg: 0.4 g/kg/week initially and 0.2 g/kg/week in the maintenance phase), hospital charges, time of professionals, infusion material, transport and losses of productivity for patients. Costs were expressed in Swiss francs (CHF) (1 CHF = 0.93€ = US$1.10, www.xe.com, 2020/10/28).
RESULTS: The total costs of IVIg were higher than those of SCIg for health insurance and other payers: 114,747 CHF versus 86,558 CHF and 8,762 CHF versus 2,401 CHF, respectively. The results were sensitive to the immunoglobulin doses, as this was the main cost driver. The SCIg daily cost in the initial phase was higher for health insurance than hospital-based IVIg was, but the additional costs were compensated during the maintenance phase (from week 28). The professional costs associated with the switch were not fully covered by the insurance and were borne by the pharmacist and the nurse.
CONCLUSIONS: SCIg for CIDP patients reinforced by an interprofessional drug therapy management programme may be a cost-effective and sustainable alternative to IVIg in the Swiss system context. From an economic perspective, this therapy alternative should be more widely supported by healthcare systems and proposed to eligible patients by professionals.
Label Included: 0

Title: Risk assessments and structured care interventions for prevention of foot ulceration in diabetes: development and validation of a prognostic model.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Diabetes-related foot ulcers give rise to considerable morbidity, generate a high monetary cost for health and social care services and precede the majority of diabetes-related lower extremity amputations. There are many clinical prediction rules in existence to assess risk of foot ulceration but few have been subject to validation.
OBJECTIVES: Our objectives were to produce an evidence-based clinical pathway for risk assessment and management of the foot in people with diabetes mellitus to estimate cost-effective monitoring intervals and to perform cost-effectiveness analyses and a value-of-information analysis.
DESIGN: We developed and validated a prognostic model using predictive modelling, calibration and discrimination techniques. An overview of systematic reviews already completed was followed by a review of randomised controlled trials of interventions to prevent foot ulceration in diabetes mellitus. A review of the health economic literature was followed by the construction of an economic model, an analysis of the transitional probability of moving from one foot risk state to another, an assessment of cost-effectiveness and a value-of-information analysis.
INTERVENTIONS: The effects of simple and complex interventions and different monitoring intervals for the clinical prediction rules were evaluated.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The main outcome was the incidence of foot ulceration. We compared the new clinical prediction rules in conjunction with the most effective preventative interventions at different monitoring intervals with a 'treat-all' strategy.
DATA SOURCES: Data from an electronic health record for 26,154 people with diabetes mellitus in one Scottish health board were used to estimate the monitoring interval. The Prediction Of Diabetic foot UlcerationS (PODUS) data set was used to develop and validate the clinical prediction rule.
REVIEW METHODS: We searched for eligible randomised controlled trials of interventions using search strategies created for Ovid® (Wolters Kluwer, Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands), MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. Randomised controlled trials in progress were identified via the International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number Registry and systematic reviews were identified via PROSPERO. Databases were searched from inception to February 2019.
RESULTS: The clinical prediction rule was found to accurately assess the risk of foot ulceration. Digital infrared thermometry, complex interventions and therapeutic footwear with offloading devices were found to be effective in preventing foot ulcers. The risk of developing a foot ulcer did not change over time for most people. We found that interventions to prevent foot ulceration may be cost-effective but there is uncertainty about this. Digital infrared thermometry and therapeutic footwear with offloading devices may be cost-effective when used to treat all people with diabetes mellitus regardless of their ulcer risk.
LIMITATIONS: The threats to the validity of the results in some randomised controlled trials in the review and the large number of missing data in the electronic health record mean that there is uncertainty in our estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence that interventions to prevent foot ulceration are effective but it is not clear who would benefit most from receiving the interventions. The ulceration risk does not change over an 8-year period for most people with diabetes mellitus. A change in the monitoring interval from annually to every 2 years for those at low risk would be acceptable.
FUTURE WORK RECOMMENDATIONS: Improving the completeness of electronic health records and sharing data would help improve our knowledge about the most clinically effective and cost-effective approaches to prevent foot ulceration in diabetes mellitus.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42016052324.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 24, No. 62. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Cost-effectiveness Analysis of an Internet-delivered Pain Management Program Delivered With Different Levels of Clinician Support: Results From a Randomised Controlled Trial.
Abstract: There is growing interest in the potential of internet-delivered pain management programs (PMPs) to increase access to care for people with chronic pain. However, very few economic evaluations of these interventions have been reported. Using existing data, the current study examined the cost-effectiveness of an internet-delivered PMP for a mixed group chronic pain patients (n = 490) provided with different levels of clinician support. The findings indicated that each additional clinical outcome (defined as a ≥ 30% reduction in disability, depression, anxiety, and pain) was associated with cost-savings when the intervention was provided in a self-guided format (ICER range: -$404--$808 AUD) or an optional-guided format (ICER range: -$314--$541 AUD), and a relatively small fixed cost when provided in the clinician-guided format (ICER range: $88-$225 AUD). The results were driven by a reduction in service use costs among the treatment groups, which offset the costs of providing the internet-delivered PMP in the self-guided and optional-guided formats. The same general pattern of results was found when more stringent clinical outcomes (defined as a ≥ 50% reduction) were employed. These findings suggest that carefully developed and administered internet-delivered PMPs, provided with different levels of clinician support, can be highly cost effective for patients with a broad range of pain conditions. PERSPECTIVE: This study examines the cost-effectiveness of an internet-delivered PMP provided to adults with a broad range of chronic pain conditions. Evidence of cost-effectiveness was found across a broad range of clinical outcomes and with different levels of clinician support.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evidence on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of out-of-hours palliative care.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: ZMILE, a multicomponent self-management intervention for adults with epilepsy: Rationale and description of the intervention.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: In this paper, we aim to provide a comprehensive description of the multicomponent self-management intervention for adults with epilepsy, ZMILE.
RATIONALE OR THEORY: Acquiring self-management skills has been shown to play a vital role in enabling patients with epilepsy overcoming (health-related) struggles in daily life and coping with limitations their condition poses on them. ZMILE is a course consisting of education (to increase concordance to treatment), goal-setting (proactive coping), and self-monitoring.
RESOURCES NEEDED: The course is guided by two nurse practitioners and each patient is allowed to bring one family member or friend. Self-monitoring plays an important role and can be done through e-Health tools or written diaries.
PROCESSES INVOLVED: During and after the course, patients are required to work toward a personally defined goal using a five-step approach by means of pro-active coping. Moreover, patients are expected to use self-monitoring tools to reflect on their own behavior and identify ways to optimize medication intake when required.
QUANTIFICATION: ZMILE is provided in an outpatient setting over five weekly group sessions and one booster session. From the start, patients are encouraged to set individual goals. Each group session will have a different theme but part of every session is reflecting on personal goals and to learn from eachother.
CONCLUSIONS: The ZMILE-intervention has been evaluated and may be a promising intervention in terms of effectiveness and feasibility for adults with epilepsy, relatives, and professionals. We present the adapted version which can be implemented in clinical practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of cardiac telerehabilitation in coronary artery disease and heart failure patients: systematic review of randomized controlled trials.
Abstract: This systematic review aims to assess the cost-effectiveness of cardiac telerehabilitation in comparison with centre-based cardiac rehabilitation (CR). Evidence of cost-effectiveness is an important step towards implementation and reimbursement of telerehabilitation services. Electronic databases were searched for economic evaluations of telerehabilitation programmes. Only randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published in English were eligible for inclusion. Study quality and risk of bias were assessed using the Consensus Health Economic Criteria (CHEC) list. A total of eight economic evaluations met the review inclusion criteria. The total sample size consisted of 751 patients ranging from a minimum of 46 patients to a maximum of 162 patients per study. Maximal follow-up was 5 years. A total of seven of the eight included studies demonstrated that telerehabilitation could lead to similar or lower long-term costs and are thus as cost-effective as traditional centre-based CR. There is significant heterogeneity between all included telerehabilitation interventions in duration, used technology, cost included and follow-up. Based on these small short duration trials, telerehabilitation may be as cost-effective as traditional centre-based approaches. However, more assessments of the value for money of telerehabilitation in larger and longer RCTs are needed both in high- as low-income countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine efficiently improves access to hepatitis C management to achieve HCV elimination in the penitentiary setting.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Linkage to care for hepatitis C includes a new tool: teleconsultation. Micro-elimination in prison is a recommendation and is feasible. An economic evaluation of telemedicine for hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment in prisons has not yet been performed. This study aimed to provide a cost-minimization analysis comparing two strategies of HCV treatment in a prison: telemedicine clinical practice (TCP) and the usual clinical practice (UCP).
METHODS: An observational cost-minimization study was carried out on a cohort of inmates who received anti-HCV treatment in El Dueso prison (May 2016-November 2017). A decision tree was constructed, incorporating different clinical profiles according to the severity of the disease, the results of diagnostic tests, and treatment outcomes as well as the costs of each profile. Satisfaction with telemedicine was evaluated through an 11-question questionnaire with a 5-point Likert scale.
RESULTS: Seventy-five inmates were treated and underwent TCP with a follow-up of one year. The average cost per patient with the TCP strategy was €1,172 (€1,151 direct costs). Had UCP been carried out, the cost would have been €1,687 (€1,630 direct). Telemedicine consultation practice produced savings of €516 (30.6%) per patient, with total savings of €38,677. The transfer costs from prison to hospital represented the most important saving item, accounting for 99.3% of the TCP-related savings. The questionnaire revealed high levels of satisfaction with TCP, with a median score of 5 in each question. Sustained virological response rates were 94.7% after the first treatment and 100% after retreatment of the four relapses.
CONCLUSION: Telemedicine consultation practice is a more efficient strategy than UCP, mainly due to the reduction of transfer costs while preserving effectiveness and user satisfaction.
Label Included: 0

Title: Quality Assessment of an Integrated Care Pathway Using Telemonitoring in Patients with Chronic Heart Failure and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: Protocol for a Quasi-Experimental Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic heart failure (CHF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) often coexist and are associated with a high morbidity and reduced quality of life (QoL). Although these diseases share similarities in symptoms and clinical course, and exacerbations of both diseases often overlap, care pathways for both conditions are usually not integrated. This results in frequent outpatient consultations and suboptimal treatment during exacerbations, leading to frequent hospital admissions. Therefore, we propose an integrated care pathway for both diseases, using telemonitoring to detect deterioration at an early stage and a single case manager for both diseases.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate whether an integrated care pathway using telemonitoring in patients with combined CHF and COPD results in a higher general health-related QoL (HRQoL) as compared with the traditional care pathways. Secondary end points include disease-specific HRQoL, level of self-management, patient satisfaction, compliance to the program, and cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: This is a monocenter, prospective study using a quasi-experimental interrupted time series design. Thirty patients with combined CHF and COPD are included. The study period of 2.5 years per patient is divided into a preintervention phase (6 months) and a postintervention phase (2 years) in which end points are assessed. The intervention consists of an on-demand treatment strategy based on monitoring symptoms related to CHF/COPD and vital parameters (weight, blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation, temperature), which are uploaded on a digital platform. The monitoring frequency and the limit values of the measurements to detect abnormalities are determined individually. Monitoring is performed by a case manager, who has the opportunity for a daily multidisciplinary meeting with both the cardiologist and the pulmonologist. Routine appointments at the outpatient clinic are cancelled and replaced by telemonitoring-guided treatment.
RESULTS: Following ethical approval of the study protocol, the first patient was included in May 2018. Inclusion is expected to be complete in May 2021.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to evaluate the effects of a novel integrated care pathway using telemonitoring for patients with combined CHF and COPD. Unique to this study is the concept of remote on-demand disease management by a single case manager for both diseases, combined with multidisciplinary meetings. Moreover, modern telemonitoring technology is used instead of, rather than as an addition to, regular care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register NL6741; https://www.trialregister.nl/trial/6741.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/20571.
Label Included: 0

Title: Perceived barriers and facilitators in using text and voice messaging for improving HIV and sexual and reproductive health of female entertainment workers in Cambodia: a qualitative study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Female entertainment workers (FEWs) in Cambodia are one of the hard-to-reach populations at risk of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and poor sexual and reproductive health (SRH). Due to the stigmatizing nature of their work, it is difficult to reach them with prevention and treatment services. The Mobile Link project is a mobile health (mHealth) intervention that aims to deliver health messages to FEWs and link them up to health services. This study aims to explore the perspectives of stakeholders on the Mobile Link and identify barriers and facilitators to the project implementation, in order to determine areas for improvement of future mHealth interventions.
METHODS: This study was conducted between November to December 2018 in the capital city and other three provinces where the Mobile Link was implemented. We employed a qualitative research design using an interpretative approach. A purposive sampling method was used to recruit participants across four project sites. All participants were stakeholders involved directly or indirectly with the Mobile Link. Nine different groups of stakeholders at the national, non-governmental organizations, community, and individual levels were recruited. Seventeen semi-structured in-depth interviews (IDIs) and five focus group discussions (FGDs) were conducted and transcribed. Data were managed using NVivo 12 and analysed using thematic analysis with an inductive approach.
RESULTS: We derived four major themes: (I) perceived benefits, (II) attitudes, (III) access, and (IV) enabling environment. Different levels of stakeholders reported on the perceived benefits of the Mobile Link, including ease of use, knowledge gained, link to services, and cost-effectiveness. Perceived benefits and enabling environment were identified as facilitators to implementation of the project. Barriers included technological issues, operational challenges, poor rapport with entertainment establishment owners, and low motivation to participate in the Mobile Link among FEWs.
CONCLUSIONS: The Mobile Link has many advantages and is well-accepted by stakeholders from the national and community levels. We discussed the implications of the perceived facilitators and barriers identified on the project and mHealth interventions. Implications discussed should be taken into consideration by organizations implementing mHealth interventions for HIV key populations in Cambodia as well as in other resource-limited settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Detection of Atrial Fibrillation on Stroke Units: Comparison of Manual versus Automatic Analysis of Continuous Telemetry.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Detection of atrial fibrillation (AF) is one of the primary diagnostic goals for patients on a stroke unit. Physician-based manual analysis of continuous ECG monitoring is regarded as the gold standard for AF detection but requires considerable resources. Recently, automated computer-based analysis of RR intervals was established to simplify AF detection. The present prospective study analyzes both methods head to head regarding AF detection specificity, sensitivity, and overall effectiveness.
METHODS: Consecutive stroke patients without history of AF or proof of AF in the admission ECG were enrolled over the period of 7 months. All patients received continuous ECG telemetry during the complete stay on the stroke unit. All ECGs underwent automated analysis by a commercially available program. Blinded to these results, all ECG tracings were also assessed manually. Sensitivity, specificity, time consumption, costs per day, and cost-effectiveness were compared.
RESULTS: 216 consecutive patients were enrolled (70.7 ± 14.1 years, 56% male) and 555 analysis days compared. AF was detected by manual ECG analysis on 37 days (6.7%) and automatically on 57 days (10.3%). Specificity of the automated algorithm was 94.6% and sensitivity 78.4% (28 [5.0%] false positive and 8 [1.4%] false negative). Patients with AF were older and had more often arterial hypertension, higher NIHSS at admission, more often left atrial dilatation, and a higher CHA2DS2-VASc score. Automation significantly reduced human resources but was more expensive compared to manual analysis alone.
CONCLUSION: Automatic AF detection is highly specific, but sensitivity is relatively low. Results of this study suggest that automated computer-based AF detection should be rather complementary to manual ECG analysis than replacing it.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development of an Artificial Intelligence-Based Automated Recommendation System for Clinical Laboratory Tests: Retrospective Analysis of the National Health Insurance Database.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Laboratory tests are considered an essential part of patient safety as patients' screening, diagnosis, and follow-up are solely based on laboratory tests. Diagnosis of patients could be wrong, missed, or delayed if laboratory tests are performed erroneously. However, recognizing the value of correct laboratory test ordering remains underestimated by policymakers and clinicians. Nowadays, artificial intelligence methods such as machine learning and deep learning (DL) have been extensively used as powerful tools for pattern recognition in large data sets. Therefore, developing an automated laboratory test recommendation tool using available data from electronic health records (EHRs) could support current clinical practice.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to develop an artificial intelligence-based automated model that can provide laboratory tests recommendation based on simple variables available in EHRs.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of the National Health Insurance database between January 1, 2013, and December 31, 2013, was performed. We reviewed the record of all patients who visited the cardiology department at least once and were prescribed laboratory tests. The data set was split into training and testing sets (80:20) to develop the DL model. In the internal validation, 25% of data were randomly selected from the training set to evaluate the performance of this model.
RESULTS: We used the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, precision, recall, and hamming loss as comparative measures. A total of 129,938 prescriptions were used in our model. The DL-based automated recommendation system for laboratory tests achieved a significantly higher area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROCmacro and AUROCmicro of 0.76 and 0.87, respectively). Using a low cutoff, the model identified appropriate laboratory tests with 99% sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: The developed artificial intelligence model based on DL exhibited good discriminative capability for predicting laboratory tests using routinely collected EHR data. Utilization of DL approaches can facilitate optimal laboratory test selection for patients, which may in turn improve patient safety. However, future study is recommended to assess the cost-effectiveness for implementing this model in real-world clinical settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Long-term cost-utility analysis of remote monitoring of older patients with pacemakers: the PONIENTE study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness studies on pacemakers have increased in the last years. However the number of long-term cost-utility studies is limited. The objective of this study was to perform a cost-utility analysis comparing remote monitoring (RM) versus conventional monitoring (CM) in hospital of older patients with pacemakers, 5 years after implant.
METHODS: Under a controlled, not randomized, nor masked clinical trial, 83 patients with pacemakers were initially selected. After five years of follow-up, a total of 55 patients (CM = 34; RM = 21) completed the study. A cost-utility analysis of RM in terms of costs per gained quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was conducted. The costs from the Public Health System (PHS) as well as patients and their relatives were taken into account for the study. The robustness of the results was verified by the probabilistic analyses through Monte-Carlo simulations.
RESULTS: After a five-year follow-up period, total costs were lower in the RM group by 23.02% than in the CM group (€274.52 versus €356.62; p = 0.033) because of a cost saving from patients' perspective (€59.05 versus €102.98; p = 0.002). However, the reduction of in-hospital visits derived from RM exhibited insignificant impact on the costs from the PHS perspective, with a cost saving of 15.04% (€215.48 vs. €253.64; p = 0.144). Costs/QALYs obtained by the RM group were higher as compared to the CM group, although there were no significant differences. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of CM in comparison to RM became positive (€301.16).
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms RM of older patients with pacemakers appears still as a cost-utility alternative to CM in hospital after 5 years of follow-up.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: (Identifier: NCT02234245 ). Registered 09 September 2014 - Prospectively registered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Artificial Intelligence for Proximal Caries Detection.
Abstract: Artificial intelligence (AI) can assist dentists in image assessment, for example, caries detection. The wider health and cost impact of employing AI for dental diagnostics has not yet been evaluated. We compared the cost-effectiveness of proximal caries detection on bitewing radiographs with versus without AI. U-Net, a fully convolutional neural network, had been trained, validated, and tested on 3,293, 252, and 141 bitewing radiographs, respectively, on which 4 experienced dentists had marked carious lesions (reference test). Lesions were stratified for initial lesions (E1/E2/D1, presumed noncavitated, receiving caries infiltration if detected) and advanced lesions (D2/D3, presumed cavitated, receiving restorative care if detected). A Markov model was used to simulate the consequences of true- and false-positive and true- and false-negative detections, as well as the subsequent decisions over the lifetime of patients. A German mixed-payers perspective was adopted. Our health outcome was tooth retention years. Costs were measured in 2020 euro. Monte-Carlo microsimulations and univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and the cost-effectiveness acceptability at different willingness-to-pay thresholds were quantified. AI showed an accuracy of 0.80; dentists' mean accuracy was significantly lower at 0.71 (minimum-maximum: 0.61-0.78, P < 0.05). AI was significantly more sensitive than dentists (0.75 vs. 0.36 [0.19-0.65]; P = 0.006), while its specificity was not significantly lower (0.83 vs. 0.91 [0.69-0.98]; P > 0.05). In the base-case scenario, AI was more effective (tooth retention for a mean 64 [2.5%-97.5%: 61-65] y) and less costly (298 [244-367] euro) than assessment without AI (62 [59-64] y; 322 [257-394] euro). The ICER was -13.9 euro/y (i.e., AI saved money at higher effectiveness). In the majority (>77%) of all cases, AI was less costly and more effective. Applying AI for caries detection is likely to be cost-effective, mainly as fewer lesions remain undetected. Notably, this cost-effectiveness requires dentists to manage detected early lesions nonrestoratively.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth in the rehabilitation of female pelvic floor dysfunction: a systematic literature review.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: The pandemic caused by coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) increased the awareness and efforts to provide care from distance using information technologies. We reviewed the literature about the practice and effectiveness of the rehabilitation of the female pelvic floor dysfunction via telehealth regarding symptomatology and quality of life and function of pelvic floor muscles (PFM).
METHODS: A bibliographic review was carried out in May 2020 in the databases: Embase, Medline/PubMed, LILACS and PEDro. A total of 705 articles were reviewed after the removal of duplicates. The methodological quality of the articles was evaluated by the PEDro scale. Two authors performed data extraction into a standardized spreadsheet.
RESULTS: Four studies were included, two being randomized controlled trials. Among the RCTs, only one compared telehealth with face-to-face treatment; the second one compared telehealth with postal treatment. The other two studies are follow-up and cost analysis reports on telehealth versus postal evaluation. Data showed that women who received the intervention remotely presented significant improvement in their symptoms, such as reducing the number of incontinence episodes and voiding frequency, improving PFM strength and improving quality of life compared to women who had the face-to-face treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Telehealth promoted a significant improvement in urinary symptoms, PFM function and quality of life. Telehealth is still emerging, and more studies are needed to draw more conclusions. The recommendations of the governmental authorities, physical therapy councils and corresponding associations of each country also need to be considered.
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost-analysis of outpatient paediatric penicillin allergy de-labelling using telemedicine.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: An interactive website to aid young women's choice of contraception: feasibility and efficacy RCT.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Effective use of contraception can reduce numbers of unintended pregnancies, but misunderstandings and concerns about contraception abound. Increasingly, women seek health-care information online.
OBJECTIVES: To develop an interactive website to aid informed choice of contraceptive method, including long-acting reversible contraception (Phase I), and test its effectiveness in a parallel, single-blind randomised trial (Phase II). Approval came from London - Camden & King's Cross Research Ethics Committee (reference 17/LO/0112).
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: For both phases, women aged 15-30 years were recruited from general practice, sexual health services, maternity services, community pharmacies and an abortion service.
DESIGN: In Phase I, we conducted three systematic literature reviews, a review of YouTube (YouTube, LLC, San Bruno, CA, USA) videos about contraception, and focus groups and interviews with young women to explore barriers to and concerns and misperceptions about contraception. We then iteratively co-designed an interactive website, Contraception Choices [URL: www.contraceptionchoices.org (accessed June 2020)], with young women and a software company. In Phase II, we evaluated the website through a randomised trial that began as a feasibility trial. Early demand for Contraception Choices stimulated a design change from a feasibility to an efficacy trial, with follow-up for clinical outcomes at 3 and 6 months. A randomisation list was incorporated into the trial software program to allocate participants to the intervention (website) or control group (standard care).
INTERVENTION: Contraception Choices is a co-designed, evidence-based, interactive website to aid informed choice of contraception. It provides information about different methods, addresses common concerns and offers tailored contraceptive options in response to individual preferences.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Qualitative - participant views and experience of the intervention, assessed through qualitative interviews. Quantitative primary outcomes - follow-up rate at 6 months in the initial feasibility trial, using a long-acting reversible contraception method, and satisfaction with contraceptive method at 6 months in the efficacy trial.
RESULTS: A total of 927 women were randomised online to the website (n = 464) or control group (n = 463), of whom 739 (80%) provided follow-up data at 6 months [786 women (85%) provided data at 3 and/or 6 months that were included in the analysis of primary outcomes]. There was little difference between groups in the proportion using long-acting reversible contraception at 6 months [30.4% intervention vs. 31.0% control, adjusted odds ratio after imputation 0.87 (95% confidence interval 0.60 to 1.27)] or in satisfaction with contraceptive method [proportion being 'satisfied' or 'very satisfied', 82.6% intervention vs. 82.1% control, adjusted odds ratio 0.93 (95% confidence interval 0.69 to 1.25)]. Qualitative evaluation indicated highly positive views about the website and increased knowledge of contraceptive methods that could dispel misperceptions. Women appreciated having information tailored to their specific needs and felt better prepared before consultations.
LIMITATIONS: We did not include intermediate measures, such as knowledge of contraceptive methods, intention to change method or confidence in discussing contraception with a health-care professional, which may have indicated other benefits of using the website. In future, the website should be studied in different settings (e.g. schools and in routine practice) to see whether or not it improves the quality or efficiency of contraceptive consultations.
CONCLUSIONS: Our systematic review indicated wide-ranging influences on women's use of contraception globally. The website, Contraception Choices, was very popular with young women and contraception service providers. It was not associated with statistically significant differences in use of long-acting reversible contraception or satisfaction with contraceptive method at 6 months.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN13247829.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 24, No. 56. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Virtual Fracture Clinics in Orthopaedic Surgery - A Systematic Review of Current Evidence.
Abstract: AIMS: Approximately 75% of fractures are simple, stable injuries which are often unnecessarily immobilised with subsequent repeated radiographs at numerous fracture clinic visits. In 2014, the Glasgow Fracture Pathway offered an alternative virtual fracture clinic (VFC) pathway with the potential to reduce traditional fracture clinic visits, waiting times and overall costs. Many units have implemented this style of pathway in the non-operative management of simple, undisplaced fractures. This study aims to systematically review the clinical outcomes, patient reported outcomes and cost analyses for VFCs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two independent reviewers performed the literature search based on PRISMA guidelines, utilizing the MEDLINE, EMBASE and COCHRANE Library databases. Studies reporting outcomes following the use of VFC were included. Outcomes analysed were: 1) clinical outcomes, 2) patient reported outcomes, and 3) cost analysis.
RESULTS: Overall, 15 studies involving 11,921 patients with a mean age of 41.1 years and mean follow-up of 12.6 months were included. In total, 65.7% of patients were directly virtually discharged with protocol derived conservative management, with 9.1% using the Helpline and 15.6% contacting their general practitioner for advice or reassurance. A total of 1.2% of patients experienced fracture non-unions and 0.4% required surgical intervention. The overall patient satisfaction rate was 81.0%, with only 1.3% experiencing residual pain at the fracture site. Additionally, the mean cost per patient for VFC was £71, with a mean saving of £53 when compared to traditional clinic models. Subgroup analysis found that for undisplaced fifth metatarsal or radial head/neck fractures, the rates of discharge from VFC to physiotherapy or general practitioners were 81.2% and 93.7% respectively.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: This study established that there is excellent evidence to support virtual fracture clinic for non-operative management of fifth metatarsal fractures, with moderate evidence for radial head and neck fractures. However, the routine use of virtual fracture clinics is presently not validated for all stable, undisplaced fracture patterns.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV; Systematic Review of all Levels of Evidence.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility and Acceptability of mHealth Interventions for Managing Hyperphosphatemia in Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of mobile health (mHealth) phosphorus management programs in hemodialysis (HD) patients.
METHODS: Patients receiving thrice-weekly HD who had 3-month average serum phosphorus of >5.5 mg/dL were randomized to one of the three self-directed phosphorus management programs delivered using tablet PCs: (1) educational videos and handouts (Education), (2) education intervention plus mobile self-monitoring with email feedback (Monitoring), or (3) education and monitoring interventions plus social cognitive theory-based behavioral videos (Combined). Feasibility and acceptability were assessed based on enrollment and retention and training needs (feasibility) and adherence to self-monitoring and reported satisfaction (acceptability).
RESULTS: Of 312 patients, 56 expressed interest, and 40 were enrolled. The majority of participants (80%) completed the 6-month study; none withdrew for intervention-related reasons. The Monitoring and Combined groups received 44 ± 15 minutes of technology training, which was considered adequate by most (75%). Self-monitoring rates were initially high, with 78% and 71% of the participants recording at least one meal and phosphate binder in week 1, respectively, but decreased over time to 15% and 9% in the final week. Most participants reported that self-monitoring helped them stay motivated (64%), track nutrients (80%), and understand how to change diet (76%), and nearly two-thirds of participants (64%) stated that they would like to continue using the tablet PC to manage their health. However, few participants (16%) indicated that self-monitoring was worth the effort. The Monitoring and Combined groups did not differ from the Education group in study outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Although the mHealth programs were generally well received, self-monitoring rates decreased substantially over time and were unaffected by social cognitive theory-based videos. Self-directed mHealth programs may be a useful adjunct to standard care but should be compared to more resource intensive programs (e.g., involving more "live" contact with a dietitian) to determine overall cost-effectiveness and role in HD care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Estimating costs of hospitalizations associated with opioid use disorder or opioid misuse at a large, urban safety-net hospital-Denver, Colorado, 2017.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The national and state economic burden of the opioid crisis is substantial. This study estimated the number of hospitalizations associated with opioid use disorder (OUD) or opioid misuse (OM) and the cost of those hospitalizations at Denver Health (DH) Medical Center, a large, urban safety-net hospital.
METHODS: For 2017, direct inpatient medical costs for hospitalizations associated with OUD or OM at DH Medical Center were estimated and categorized by group and insurance type. Data were from the DH electronic health records database that included charge data. Hospitalizations associated with OUD or OM were identified using diagnostic codes and an expanded set of inclusion criteria including diagnostic codes, opioid withdrawal assessments, opioid-related admission notes, and medication prescriptions to treat OUD. Costs were estimated using cost-to-charge ratios specific to DH.
RESULTS: During 2017, 220 hospitalizations, $9,834,979 in total charges, $3,690,724 in estimated total costs, and $2,115,990 in total reimbursements were identified using diagnostic codes. Using the most expansive set of inclusion criteria, 739 hospitalizations, $35,033,157 in total charges, $13,346,099 in estimated total costs, and $7,020,877 in total reimbursements were identified. Of the 739 hospitalizations, Medicaid covered 546 hospitalizations (74 %), the largest proportion of total reimbursement (65 %), with estimated total costs of $10,135,048 (77 %).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified considerable costs for hospitalizations associated with OUD or OM for DH. Estimating costs for hospitalizations associated with OUD or OM through use of expanded inclusion methodology can guide future program planning to allocate resources efficiently for hospitals such as DH Medical Center.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving the efficiency of ankle fracture care through home care and day-surgery units: Delivering safe surgery on a value-based healthcare model.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Preoperative home care for suitable patients with ankle fractures is becoming an increasingly common practice. It allows adequate time for reduction of ankle swelling following a decision to undertake operative fixation has been made. We aim to assess the safety, efficiency, cost-effectiveness and differences in clinical & patient outcomes of day surgery unit (DSU) care for ankle fracture treatment in selected patients. Our study combined home therapy treatment with DSU care for suitable ankle fractures.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Trauma Centre.
PATIENTS: Fifty-three patients requiring operative fixation for an ankle fracture were divided into 2 groups. Patients in group 1 entered the home care combined with DSU treatment pathway whilst in group 2 were treated as in patient in the main trauma theatre in our standard pathway.
INTERVENTION: Comparison of Home Care & Day Case Surgery vs. in patient admission for patients requiring operative ankle fractures fixation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prospective data collection was undertaken over a 2-year period, on fracture type, logistical outcomes including time to surgery and total length of stay in the hospital and clinical outcomes including the rate of post-operative complications, incidence of unplanned surgical revisions and objective patient satisfaction. Economic analysis was performed to compare the marginal cost saving per case for group 1 vs. group 2.
RESULTS: There were 21 patients in group 1. They waited for on average 5.8 days at home for their operation and none were admitted pre or post operatively. There were no associated complications and the majority of patients were discharged from follow-up at 6 weeks post-surgery. In-group 2, there were 32 patients. They waited on average 2.4 days for their operation in the hospital and had an average length of stay of 4.9 days. One patient in group 2 suffered from a deep vein thrombosis. The benefit from our chargeable tariff for group 1 patients was £2295 per case while the margin for group 2 patients was £277 per case. The financial benefit to the health care provider was £2018 in favour of home care and DSU treatment, with high service satisfaction and low complication rates.
DISCUSSION: This study provides focused evidence supporting the use of home care for the management of ankle fractures. The DSU pathway improves the value in healthcare delivery with high patient satisfaction scores when compared to the traditional pathway. Our model demonstrates predictably good clinical outcomes with a financial cost benefit over in-patient admission care model for selected patients.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in Obstetrics.
Abstract: Telemedicine is an important modality of care delivery in the twenty-first century and has many applications for the obstetric population. Existing research has shown the clinical efficacy and improved patient satisfaction of many telemedicine platforms in obstetrics. Telemedicine has the potential to reduce racial and geographic disparities in pregnancy care, but more research is necessary to inform best practices. Developing cost-effective telemedicine programs and establishing health care policy that standardizes insurance reimbursement are some of the most important steps toward scaling up telemedicine offerings for obstetric patients in the United States.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Cost of Visit-based Home Care for up to Two Weeks in the Last Three Months of Life: APilot Study of Community Care Based at a Hospice-at-home Service in South East of England.
Abstract: The cost of visit-based community care based around a 24/7 hospice-at-home (HatH) service in the last 3 months of life was assessed. Thirty families completed a health and social carediary of at-home visits over two-weeks following contact with the HatH night service. Diaries captured 333 days of care provision, averaging 11 diary days per family, 708 health care professional and carer visits, lasting 604 hours at a cost of £20,192 ($24,946). Hat H care, integrated with community support, seems an economic proposition but highlights the complexities of assessing cost of end of life care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Associations between informal care costs, care quality, carer rewards, burden and subsequent grief: the international, access, rights and empowerment mortality follow-back study of the last 3 months of life (IARE I study).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: At the end of life, formal care costs are high. Informal care (IC) costs, and their effects on outcomes, are not known. This study aimed to determine the IC costs for older adults in the last 3 months of life, and their relationships with outcomes, adjusting for care quality.
METHODS: Mortality follow-back postal survey.
SETTING: Palliative care services in England (London), Ireland (Dublin) and the USA (New York, San Francisco).
PARTICIPANTS: Informal carers (ICrs) of decedents who had received palliative care.
DATA: ICrs reported hours and activities, care quality, positive aspects and burdens of caregiving, and completed the Texas Revised Inventory of Grief (TRIG).
ANALYSIS: All costs (formal, informal) were calculated by multiplying reported hours of activities by country-specific costs for that activity. IC costs used country-specific shadow prices, e.g. average hourly wages and unit costs for nursing care. Multivariable logistic regression analysis explored the association of potential explanatory variables, including IC costs and care quality, on three outcomes: positive aspects and burdens of caregiving, and subsequent grief.
RESULTS: We received 767 completed surveys, 245 from London, 282 Dublin, 131 New York and 109 San Francisco. Most respondents were women (70%); average age was 60 years. On average, patients received 66-76 h per week from ICrs for 'being on call', 52-55 h for ICrs being with them, 19-21 h for personal care, 17-21 h for household tasks, 15-18 h for medical procedures and 7-10 h for appointments. Mean (SD) IC costs were as follows: USA $32,468 (28,578), England $36,170 (31,104) and Ireland $43,760 (36,930). IC costs accounted for 58% of total (formal plus informal) costs. Higher IC costs were associated with less grief and more positive perspectives of caregiving. Poor home care was associated with greater caregiver burden.
CONCLUSIONS: Costs to informal carers are larger than those to formal care services for people in the last three months of life. If well supported ICrs can play a role in providing care, and this can be done without detriment to them, providing that they are helped. Improving community palliative care and informal carer support should be a focus for future investment.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects of a Mobile and Web App (Thought Spot) on Mental Health Help-Seeking Among College and University Students: Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mental health disorders are the most prevalent health issues among postsecondary students, yet few solutions to this emerging crisis exist. While mobile health technologies are touted as promising solutions for the unmet mental health needs of these students, the efficacy of these tools remains unclear. In response to these gaps, this study evaluates Thought Spot, a mobile and web app created through participatory design research.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of the research is to examine the impact of Thought Spot on mental health and wellness help-seeking intentions, behaviors, attitudes, self-stigma, and self-efficacy among postsecondary students in Canada.
METHODS: A 2-armed randomized controlled trial involving students from three postsecondary institutions was conducted. Students were eligible if they were aged 17 to 29 years, enrolled in full-time or part-time studies, functionally competent in English, and had access to a compatible digital device. The usual care group received a mental health services information pamphlet. The intervention group received the Thought Spot app on their digital device. Thought Spot is a standalone app that allows users to add, review, and search crowdsourced information about nearby mental health and wellness services. Users can also track their mood on the app. Outcomes were self-assessed through questionnaires collected at baseline and 3 and 6 months. The primary outcome was change in formal help-seeking intentions from baseline to 6 months, measured by the General Help-Seeking Questionnaire. A mixed-effects model was used to compare the impact of usual care and intervention on the primary outcome (formal help-seeking intentions). Secondary outcomes included changes in informal help-seeking intentions and help-seeking behaviors, help-seeking attitudes, self-stigma, and self-efficacy.
RESULTS: A total of 481 students were randomized into two groups: 240 to usual care, and 241 to the intervention group. There were no significant differences in help-seeking intentions between the usual care and intervention groups over 6 months (F2,877=0.85; P=.43, f=0.04). Both groups demonstrated similar increases in formal help-seeking intentions at 3 and 6 months (F2,877=23.52; P<.001, f=0.21). Compared with males, females sought more help from formal resources (OR 1.86; 95% CI 1.22 to 2.83, P=.001). Females were less likely to seek help from informal sources than males (OR 0.80; 95% CI 0.22 to 0.73, P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Prompting postsecondary students about mental health and help-seeking appears to increase help-seeking intentions. mHealth interventions may be as effective as information pamphlets in increasing formal help-seeking but may confer a small advantage in driving help-seeking from informal sources. Although there is enthusiasm, developers and health policy experts should exercise caution and thoroughly evaluate these types of digital tools. Future studies should explore the cost-effectiveness of digital interventions and develop strategies for improving their efficacy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03412461; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03412461.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR2-10.2196/resprot.6446.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Importance of Telemedicine during COVID-19 Pandemic: A Focus on Diabetic Retinopathy.
Abstract: Recently, telemedicine has become remarkably important, due to increased deployment and development of digital technologies. National and international guidelines should consider its inclusion in their updates. During the COVID-19 pandemic, mandatory social distancing and the lack of effective treatments has made telemedicine the safest interactive system between patients, both infected and uninfected, and clinicians. A few potential evidence-based scenarios for the application of telemedicine have been hypothesized. In particular, its use in diabetes and complication monitoring has been remarkably increasing, due to the high risk of poor prognosis. New evidence and technological improvements in telemedicine application in diabetic retinopathy (DR) have demonstrated efficacy and usefulness in screening. Moreover, despite an initial increase for devices and training costs, teleophthalmology demonstrated a good cost-to-efficacy ratio; however, no national screening program has yet focused on DR prevention and diagnosis. Lack of data during the COVID-19 pandemic strongly limits the possibility of tracing the real management of the disease, which is only conceivable from past evidence in normal conditions. The pandemic further stressed the importance of remote monitoring. However, the deployment of device and digital application used to increase screening of individuals and monitor progression of retinal disease needs to be easily accessible to general practitioners.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine: Is It a Tool for Orthopedics?
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this paper is to illustrate how telemedicine can be beneficial in many areas of orthopedic clinical practice through a literature narrative review. In addition, we discuss advantages, barriers, and enablers of such technology.
RECENT FINDINGS: Telemedicine in orthopedics was initially described to discuss simple cases among non-specialist doctors through videoconferencing. Recently, it evolved to postoperative follow-up on selected cases, physical examination, and even teleconsultations direct to patients. Studies have reported that consultation can be offered safely to selected patients. Although this topic is already being addressed for a long time, recent studies have reported that there is still resistance among many orthopedic surgeons. Telemedicine for orthopedics has safely expanded its operations. It can be used in postoperative follow-up of selected cases, fracture follow-up, and even in pediatric cases. Remote diagnosis of fractures is done successfully on an outpatient basis in many countries. Protocols and methods to standardize the virtual orthopedic examination for common musculoskeletal conditions have been developed. Satisfaction with teleconsultations as well as cost-effectiveness of remote care orthopedics were already well reported by some studies. We believe that remote care will be expanded in several hospitals around the world due to its huge potential. This fact is explained by natural technological development and by change and obliteration of habits accelerated exponentially after COVID-19 crisis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tele-Neuro-Rehabilitation in Italy: State of the Art and Future Perspectives.
Abstract: Current research suggests that the management of neurological diseases, both in adults and children, requires an ever increasing commitment of resources for the national healthcare system (NHS). In Italy, due to the aging of the population, increase in chronicity and morbidity of pathologies, and presence of islands and rural areas, health needs to be supported by innovative technologies. Telemedicine is a method of providing healthcare services at distance, remotely connecting health professionals and patients (or two professionals). In Italy, telemedicine is under development, and the NHS has not yet exploited and independently developed all the possibilities that telemedicine offers. Tele-rehabilitation consists in the use of information and communication technologies for the remote support of rehabilitation services. By allowing "home care," it represents a valid support during the home rehabilitation process. This review is aimed at evaluating the role of telerehabilitation in Italy, with regard to the motor and cognitive rehabilitation programs applied to neurological pathologies, in both pediatric and adult patients. We screened the studies published between 2010 and 2019 on PubMed, Scopus, Cochrane, and Web of Sciences databases. Using the PICO model, the search combined the terms "telerehabilitation"; "neurological disorders"; "neurodegenerative disease," "motor telerehabilitation"; "cognitive rehabilitation." This review showed that telerehabilitation is a promising healthcare tool, as it guarantees continuity of care over time (after discharge) and in space (from hospital to patient's home), especially in patients with stroke. Furthermore, it allows to increase the frequency and intensity of rehabilitation programs, provide individualized rehabilitation treatment in comfortable and familiar environment for patient, monitor and evaluate patients' needs and progress, stimulate patient motivation and achieve better patient satisfaction, verify the results achieved by the patients, and potentially reduce the service costs. Unfortunately, almost all neurorehabilitation studies are characterized by small samples and wide variability of results, and would benefit from standardized procedures, aims and targets. Future telerehabilitation trials should include cost-effectiveness analysis associated with clinical outcomes to better assess the validity of this promising tool.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Effectiveness of Artificial Intelligence Conversational Agents in Health Care: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The high demand for health care services and the growing capability of artificial intelligence have led to the development of conversational agents designed to support a variety of health-related activities, including behavior change, treatment support, health monitoring, training, triage, and screening support. Automation of these tasks could free clinicians to focus on more complex work and increase the accessibility to health care services for the public. An overarching assessment of the acceptability, usability, and effectiveness of these agents in health care is needed to collate the evidence so that future development can target areas for improvement and potential for sustainable adoption.
OBJECTIVE: This systematic review aims to assess the effectiveness and usability of conversational agents in health care and identify the elements that users like and dislike to inform future research and development of these agents.
METHODS: PubMed, Medline (Ovid), EMBASE (Excerpta Medica dataBASE), CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature), Web of Science, and the Association for Computing Machinery Digital Library were systematically searched for articles published since 2008 that evaluated unconstrained natural language processing conversational agents used in health care. EndNote (version X9, Clarivate Analytics) reference management software was used for initial screening, and full-text screening was conducted by 1 reviewer. Data were extracted, and the risk of bias was assessed by one reviewer and validated by another.
RESULTS: A total of 31 studies were selected and included a variety of conversational agents, including 14 chatbots (2 of which were voice chatbots), 6 embodied conversational agents (3 of which were interactive voice response calls, virtual patients, and speech recognition screening systems), 1 contextual question-answering agent, and 1 voice recognition triage system. Overall, the evidence reported was mostly positive or mixed. Usability and satisfaction performed well (27/30 and 26/31), and positive or mixed effectiveness was found in three-quarters of the studies (23/30). However, there were several limitations of the agents highlighted in specific qualitative feedback.
CONCLUSIONS: The studies generally reported positive or mixed evidence for the effectiveness, usability, and satisfactoriness of the conversational agents investigated, but qualitative user perceptions were more mixed. The quality of many of the studies was limited, and improved study design and reporting are necessary to more accurately evaluate the usefulness of the agents in health care and identify key areas for improvement. Further research should also analyze the cost-effectiveness, privacy, and security of the agents.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR2-10.2196/16934.
Label Included: 0

Title: Video consultations in primary and specialist care during the covid-19 pandemic and beyond.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparison of in-person and telegeriatric follow-up consultations.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Telehealth has the potential to support the care of older adults and their desire to age at home by providing a videoconferencing connection to specialist geriatric care. However, more information is needed to determine how telehealth services affect the care of older adults, and how telehealth services for older adults compare to traditional in-person methods of care provision. The aim of this study was to compare telegeriatric and in-person geriatric consultation methods with respect to outcomes and costs.
METHODS: This was a retrospective chart analysis of consultation letters from patients' first follow-up appointment with a geriatric specialist during the 2017/2018 fiscal year (N = 95) in a health jurisdiction of a Western Canadian province.
RESULTS: Patients seen through telehealth and in person were similar in mean age (M = 79.1 and 78.1 years, respectively) and were predominately female. Telegeriatric consultations resulted in more requests for further testing and screening (p = 0.003), new diagnoses (p = 0.002), medication changes (p = 0.009) and requests for follow-up (p = 0.03) compared to in-person consultations. An average one-day clinic with one geriatric specialist providing consultations through telehealth cost Can$1684-$1859 less than an equivalent in-person clinic.
DISCUSSION: Although additional research is needed to explain the differences in outcomes further between telehealth and in-person consultations found in this work, telehealth consultations cost substantially less than in-person consultations and are a promising way to improve access to geriatric care for older adults in underserved areas.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of a telehealth intervention for in-home dementia care support: Findings from the FamTechCare clinical trial.
Abstract: Determining the cost-effectiveness of technological interventions is a crucial aspect in assuring these interventions can be adopted. The FamTechCare intervention is an innovative telehealth support that links family caregivers of persons living with dementia to tailored feedback from dementia care experts based on caregiver-initiated video recordings of challenging care situations. The FamTechCare intervention has demonstrated significant reductions in caregiver depression and increases in caregiver competence when compared to standard telephone support. The purpose of this article is to report on the cost-effectiveness of the FamTechCare telehealth intervention. Process-based costing and a cost-effectiveness analysis using the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was completed with 68 caregiver and person living dementia with dyads. The cost of the 12-week FamTechCare telehealth intervention was found to be greater ($48.43 per dyad per week) due to the telehealth equipment, recording application, and expert panel time compared with the telephone support intervention ($6.96 per dyad per week). The ICER was $18.51 for caregiver depression and $36.31 for caregiver competence indicating that it cost no more than $36.38 per dyad per week over 12 weeks to achieve significant improvement in depression and competence in the FamTechCare caregivers compared to the telephone support caregivers. The FamTechCare intervention appears to be cost-effective when compared to the telephone support intervention and remains near the willingness-to-pay threshold for caregivers providing in-home dementia care support.
Label Included: 0

Title: Determining if Telehealth Can Reduce Health System Costs: Scoping Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telehealth represents an opportunity for Australia to harness the power of technology to redesign the way health care is delivered. The potential benefits of telehealth include increased accessibility to care, productivity gains for health providers and patients through reduced travel, potential for cost savings, and an opportunity to develop culturally appropriate services that are more sensitive to the needs of special populations. The uptake of telehealth has been hindered at times by clinician reluctance and policies that preclude metropolitan populations from accessing telehealth services.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate if telehealth reduces health system costs compared with traditional service models and to identify the scenarios in which cost savings can be realized.
METHODS: A scoping review was undertaken to meet the study aims. Initially, literature searches were conducted using broad terms for telehealth and economics to identify economic evaluation literature in telehealth. The investigators then conducted an expert focus group to identify domains where telehealth could reduce health system costs, followed by targeted literature searches for corresponding evidence.
RESULTS: The cost analyses reviewed provided evidence that telehealth reduced costs when health system-funded travel was prevented and when telehealth mitigated the need for expensive procedural or specialist follow-up by providing competent care in a more efficient way. The expert focus group identified 4 areas of potential savings from telehealth: productivity gains, reductions in secondary care, alternate funding models, and telementoring. Telehealth demonstrated great potential for productivity gains arising from health system redesign; however, under the Australian activity-based funding, it is unlikely that these gains will result in cost savings. Secondary care use mitigation is an area of promise for telehealth; however, many studies have not demonstrated overall cost savings due to the cost of administering and monitoring telehealth systems. Alternate funding models from telehealth systems have the potential to save the health system money in situations where the consumers pay out of pocket to receive services. Telementoring has had minimal economic evaluation; however, in the long term it is likely to result in inadvertent cost savings through the upskilling of generalist and allied health clinicians.
CONCLUSIONS: Health services considering implementing telehealth should be motivated by benefits other than cost reduction. The available evidence has indicated that although telehealth provides overwhelmingly positive patient benefits and increases productivity for many services, current evidence suggests that it does not routinely reduce the cost of care delivery for the health system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Internet-based patient- primary care physician-cardiologist integrated management model of hypertension in China: study protocol for a multicentre randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The control rate of hypertension is low in China, especially in rural, western and minority areas. This is related to poor medical skills among physicians in primary care institutions and low levels of trust among patients. However, primary healthcare institutions are the main battleground for the prevention and treatment of hypertension. It is worth exploring how to most effectively integrate patients, primary care physicians and cardiologists in tertiary hospitals, to build a long-term mechanism for the prevention and treatment of hypertension. In this study, we aim to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and conduct a health economic evaluation of an internet-based patient-primary care physician-cardiologist integrated management model of hypertension in areas of China with different socioeconomic levels.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a 12-month, multicentre, randomised controlled trial involving patients with hypertension in urban communities and rural areas of Sichuan Province, China. Each primary healthcare institution will cooperate with their tertiary hospital through the Red Shine Chronic Disease Management System (RSCDMS). Patients will be randomly assigned 1:1 to two groups: (1) a traditional care group; (2) an intervention group in which primary care physicians and cardiologists can share patient data and manage patients together through the RSCDMS. Patients can upload their blood pressure (BP) values and communicate with physicians using the system. The primary outcome is the change in systolic BP over a 12-month period. Secondary outcomes are changes in diastolic BP, BP control rate, values of 24-hour ambulatory BP monitoring, difference in cost-effectiveness between the groups, patient satisfaction, medication adherence and home BP monitoring compliance. All data will be recorded and stored in the RSCDMS and analysed using IBM SPSS V.26.0.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study has been approved by the Biomedical Research Ethics Committee of the West China Hospital of Sichuan University in Sichuan, China (No. 2020-148). Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants. The results of this study will be disseminated to the public through academic conferences and peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ChiCTR2000030677.
Label Included: 0

Title: Identifying the Value of an eHealth Intervention Aimed at Cognitive Impairments: Observational Study in Different Contexts and Service Models.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Value is one of the central concepts in health care, but it is vague within the field of summative eHealth evaluations. Moreover, the role of context in explaining the value is underexplored, and there is no explicit framework guiding the evaluation of the value of eHealth interventions. Hence, different studies conceptualize and operationalize value in different ways, ranging from measuring outcomes such as clinical efficacy or behavior change of patients or professionals to measuring the perceptions of various stakeholders or in economic terms.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of our study is to identify contextual factors that determine similarities and differences in the value of an eHealth intervention between two contexts. We also aim to reflect on and contribute to the discussion about the specification, assessment, and relativity of the "value" concept in the evaluation of eHealth interventions.
METHODS: The study concerned a 6-month eHealth intervention targeted at elderly patients (n=107) diagnosed with cognitive impairment in Italy and Sweden. The intervention introduced a case manager role and an eHealth platform to provide remote monitoring and coaching services to the patients. A model for evaluating the value of eHealth interventions was designed as monetary and nonmonetary benefits and sacrifices, based on the value conceptualizations in eHealth and marketing literature. The data was collected using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), the clock drawing test, and the 5-level EQ-5D (EQ-5D-5L). Semistructured interviews were conducted with patients and health care professionals. Monetary data was collected from the health care and technology providers.
RESULTS: The value of an eHealth intervention applied to similar types of populations but differed in different contexts. In Sweden, patients improved cognitive performance (MMSE mean 0.85, SD 1.62, P<.001), reduced anxiety (EQ-5D-5L mean 0.16, SD 0.54, P=.046), perceived their health better (EQ-5D-5L VAS scale mean 2.6, SD 9.7, P=.035), and both patients and health care professionals were satisfied with the care. However, the Swedish service model demonstrated an increased cost, higher workload for health care professionals, and the intervention was not cost-efficient. In Italy, the patients were satisfied with the care received, and the health care professionals felt empowered and had an acceptable workload. Moreover, the intervention was cost-effective. However, clinical efficacy and quality of life improvements have not been observed. We identified 6 factors that influence the value of eHealth intervention in a particular context: (1) service delivery design of the intervention (process of delivery), (2) organizational setup of the intervention (ie, organizational structure and professionals involved), (3) cost of different treatments, (4) hourly rates of staff for delivering the intervention, (5) lifestyle habits of the population (eg, how physically active they were in their daily life and if they were living alone or with family), and (6) local preferences on the quality of patient care.
CONCLUSIONS: Value in the assessments of eHealth interventions need to be considered beyond economic terms, perceptions, or behavior changes. To obtain a holistic view of the value created, it needs to be operationalized into monetary and nonmonetary outcomes, categorizing these into benefits and sacrifices.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Impacts of Deep Surgical Site Infections on Readmissions, Length of Stay, and Costs: A Matched Case-Control Study Conducted in an Academic Hospital in the Netherlands.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the impacts of deep surgical site infections (dSSIs) regarding hospital readmissions, prolonged length of stay (LoS), and estimated costs.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We designed and applied a matched case-control observational study using the electronic health records at the University Medical Center Groningen in the Netherlands. We compared patients with dSSI and non-SSI, matched on the basis of having similar procedures. A prevailing topology of surgeries categorized as clean, clean-contaminated, contaminated, and dirty was applied.
RESULTS: Out of a total of 12,285 patients, 393 dSSI were identified as cases, and 2864 patients without SSIs were selected as controls. A total of 343 dSSI patients (87%) and 2307 (81%) controls required hospital readmissions. The median LoS was 7 days (P25-P75: 2.5-14.5) for dSSI patients and 5 days (P25-P75: 1-9) for controls (p-value: <0.001). The estimated mean cost per hospital admission was €9,016 (SE±343) for dSSI patients and €5,409 (SE±120) for controls (p<0.001). Independent variables associated with dSSI were patient's age ≥65 years (OR: 1.334; 95% CI: 1.036-1.720), the use of prophylactic antibiotics (OR: 0.424; 95% CI: 0.344-0.537), and neoplasms (OR: 2.050; 95% CI: 1.473-2.854).
CONCLUSION: dSSI is associated with increased costs, prolonged LoS, and increased readmission rates. Elevated risks were seen for elderly patients and those with neoplasms. Additionally, a protective effect of prophylactic antibiotics was found.
Label Included: 0

Title: Design of the Pregnancy REmote MOnitoring II study (PREMOM II): a multicenter, randomized controlled trial of remote monitoring for gestational hypertensive disorders.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Observational data from the retrospective, non-randomized Pregnancy REmote MOnitoring I (PREMOM I) study showed that remote monitoring (RM) may be beneficial for prenatal observation of women at risk for gestational hypertensive disorders (GHD) in terms of clinical outcomes, health economics, and stakeholder perceptions. PREMOM II is a prospective, randomized, multicenter follow-up study that was performed to explore these promising results.
METHODS: After providing written consent, 3922 pregnant women aged ≥18 years who are at increased risk of developing GHD will be randomized (1:1:1 ratio) to (a) conventional care (control group), (b) a patient self-monitoring group, and (c) a midwife-assisted RM group. The women in each group will be further divided (1:1 ratio) to evaluate the outcomes of targeted or non-targeted (conventional) antihypertensive medication. Women will be recruited in five hospitals in Flanders, Belgium: Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg, Universitaire Ziekenhuis Antwerpen, Universitaire Ziekenhuis Leuven, AZ Sint Jan Brugge-Oostende, and AZ Sint Lucas Brugge. The primary outcomes are: (1) numbers and types of prenatal visits; (2) maternal outcomes; (3) neonatal outcomes; (4) the applicability and performance of RM; and (5) compliance with RM and self-monitoring. The secondary outcomes are: (1) cost-effectiveness and willingness to pay; (2) patient-reported outcome measures (PROMS) questionnaires on the experiences of the participants; and (3) the maternal and perinatal outcomes according to the type of antihypertensive medication. Demographic, and maternal and neonatal outcomes are collected from the patients' electronic records. Blood pressure and compliance rate will be obtained from an online digital coordination platform for remote data handling. Information about the healthcare-related costs will be obtained from the National Coordination Committee of Belgian Health Insurance Companies (Intermutualistisch Agentschap). PROMS will be assessed using validated questionnaires.
DISCUSSION: To our knowledge, this is the first randomized trial comparing midwife-assisted RM and self-monitoring of prenatal blood pressure versus conventional management among women at increased risk of GHD. Positive results of this study may lead to a practical framework for caregivers, hospital management, and payers to introduce RM into the prenatal care programs of high-risk pregnancies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study was registered on clinicaltrials.gov , identification number NCT04031430. Registered 24 July 2019, https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04031430?cond=premom+ii&draw=2&rank=1 .
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of a home-based telerehabilitation system in patients after total hip arthroplasty: study protocol of a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The demand for total hip arthroplasty (THA) is quickly rising given the escalating global incidence of hip osteoarthritis, and it is widely accepted that the post-surgery rehabilitation is key to optimize outcomes. The overall objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a new telerehabilitation solution, ReHub, for the physical function and clinical outcome improvement following THA. The specific aims of this manuscript are to describe the study design, protocol, content of interventions, and primary and secondary outcomes and to discuss the clinical rehabilitation impact of the expected experimental results.
METHODS/DESIGN: This prospective, randomized, controlled, parallel-group trial will include 56 patients who had undergone primary THA. Patients are randomized to a control group (standard rehabilitation during the 2-week stay in the rehabilitation clinic followed by 3 weeks of unsupervised home-based rehabilitation) or an experimental group (standard rehabilitation during the 2-week stay in the rehabilitation clinic followed by 3 weeks of home-based ReHub-assisted telerehabilitation). The primary outcome is physical performance assessed through the Timed Up-and-Go (TUG) test. Secondary outcomes include independence level, pain intensity, hip disability, hip range of motion, muscle strength, and patient's perception of clinical improvement.
DISCUSSION: Proving the clinical and cost-effectiveness of a home-based telerehabilitation program for physical and muscle function following THA could support its systematic incorporation in post-surgical rehabilitation protocols, which should be tailored to the individual and collective needs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrial.gov NCT04176315 . Registered on 22 November 2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Translating evidence-based treatment for digital health delivery: a protocol for family-based treatment for anorexia nervosa using telemedicine.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Family-based treatment (FBT) is an efficacious outpatient intervention for young people diagnosed with Anorexia Nervosa (AN). To date, treatment to protocol has relied on standard face-to-face delivery. Face-to-face therapy is subject to geographic, temporal and human factors, rendering it particularly susceptible to inequities and disruption. This has resulted in poorer service provision for rural and regional families, and recently a significant challenge to providing face-to-face services during the COVID-19 global pandemic. The present study examines whether FBT for AN can be successfully translated to a digital delivery platform to address these access issues.
METHOD: Forty young people aged 12 to 18 years who meet DSM-5 diagnostic criteria for AN, and live in a rural or regional setting, will along with their family be recruited to the study. Trained therapists will provide 18 sessions of FBT over 9 months via telemedicine to the home of the young person and their family. The analysis will examine treatment effectiveness, feasibility, acceptability, and cost-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: The study addresses the treatment needs of families not able to attend face-to-face clinical services for evidence-based treatment for eating disorders. This might be due to several barriers, including a lack of local services or long travel distances to services. There has been a recent and unprecedented demand for telemedicine to facilitate the continuity of care during COVID-19 despite geographical circumstances. If delivering treatment in this modality is clinically and economically effective and feasible, it will facilitate access to potentially lifesaving, evidence-based treatments for families formerly unable to access such care and provide evidence for the continuity of services when and where face-to-face treatment is not feasible.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costing and Cost-Effectiveness of a Mobile Health Intervention (ImTeCHO) in Improving Infant Mortality in Tribal Areas of Gujarat, India: Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: During 2013, a mobile health (mHealth) program, Innovative Mobile Technology for Community Health Operation (ImTeCHO), was launched in predominantly tribal and rural communities of Gujarat, India. ImTeCHO was developed as a job aid for Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and staff of primary health centers to increase coverage of maternal, neonatal, and child health care.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we assessed the incremental cost per life-years saved as a result of the ImTeCHO intervention as compared to routine maternal, neonatal, and child health care programs.
METHODS: A two-arm, parallel, stratified cluster randomized trial with 11 clusters (primary health centers) randomly allocated to the intervention (280 ASHAs, n=2,34,134) and control (281 ASHAs, n=2,42,809) arms was initiated in 2015 in a predominantly tribal and rural community of Gujarat. A system of surveillance assessed all live births and infant deaths in the intervention and control areas. All costs, including those required during the start-up and implementation phases, were estimated from a program perspective. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated by dividing the incremental cost of the intervention with the number of deaths averted to estimate the cost per infant death averted. This was further analyzed to estimate the cost per life-years saved for the purpose of comparability. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to account for parameter uncertainties.
RESULTS: Out of a total of 5754 live births (3014 in the intervention arm, 2740 in the control arm) reported in the study area, per protocol analysis showed that the implementation of ImTeCHO resulted in saving 11 infant deaths per 1000 live births in the study area at an annual incremental cost of US $163,841, which is equivalent to US $54,360 per 1000 live births. Overall, ImTeCHO is a cost-effective intervention from a program perspective at an incremental cost of US $74 per life-years saved or US $5057 per death averted. In a realistic environment with district scale-up, the program is expected to become even more cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the findings of our study strongly suggest that the mHealth intervention as part of the ImTeCHO program is cost-effective and should be considered for replication elsewhere in India.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials Registry of India CTRI/2015/06/005847; http://www.ctri.nic.in/Clinicaltrials/pdf_generate.php?trialid=11820&EncHid=&modid=&compid=%27,%2711820det%27.
Label Included: 1

Title: Cost-effectiveness analysis of phenotypic-guided versus guidelines-guided bronchodilator therapy in viral bronchiolitis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Although recent evidence suggests that management of viral bronchiolitis requires something other than guidelines-guided therapy, there is a lack of evidence supporting the economic benefits of phenotypic-guided bronchodilator therapy for treating this disease. The aim of the present study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of phenotypic-guided versus guidelines-guided bronchodilator therapy in infants with viral bronchiolitis.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was developed to compare the cost-effectiveness of phenotypic-guided versus guidelines-guided bronchodilator therapy in infants with viral bronchiolitis. Phenotypic-guided bronchodilator therapy was defined as the administration of albuterol in infants exhibiting a profile of increased likelihood of response to bronchodilators. The effectiveness parameters and costs of the model were obtained from systematic reviews of the literature with meta-analyses and electronic medical records. The main outcome was the avoidance of hospital admission after initial care in the emergency department.
RESULTS: Compared to guidelines-guided strategy, treating patients with viral bronchiolitis with the phenotypic-guided bronchodilator therapy strategy was associated with lower total costs (US$250.99; 95% uncertainty interval [UI]: US$184.37 to $336.51 vs. US$263.46; 95% UI: US$189.81 to $349.19 average cost per patient) and a higher probability of avoidance of hospital admission (0.7902; 95% UI: 0.7315-0.8356 vs. 0.7638; 95% UI: 0.7062-0.8201), thus leading to dominance. Results were robust to deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to guidelines-guided strategy, treating infants with viral bronchiolitis using the phenotypic-guided bronchodilator therapy strategy is a more cost-effective strategy, because it involves a lower probability of hospital admission at lower total treatment costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Accessibility to First-Mile health services: A time-cost model for rural Uganda.
Abstract: This study estimates the geographical disconnection in rural Low-Middle-Income Countries (LMIC) between First-Mile suppliers of healthcare services and end-users. This detachment is due to geographical barriers and to a shortage of technical, financial, and human resources that enable peripheral health facilities to perform effective and prompt diagnosis. End-users typically have easier access to cell-phones than hospitals, so mHealth can help to overcome such barriers, transforming inpatients/outpatients into home-patients, decongesting hospitals, especially during epidemics. This generates savings for patients and the healthcare system. The advantages of mHealth are well known, but there is a literature gap in the description of its economic returns. This study applies a geographical model to a typical LMIC, Uganda, quantifying the time-cost to reach an equipped medical center. Time-cost measures the disconnection between First-Mile hubs and end-users, the potential demand of mHealth by remote end-users, and the consequent savings. The results highlight an average time-cost of 75 min, well above the recommended thresholds, and estimate that mHealth leads to significant savings (1.5 monthly salaries and 21% of public health budget). Community health workers and private actors may re-engineer healthcare resources through Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), remunerated with results-based financing (RBF). These findings can contribute to improving healthcare resource allocation in LMIC.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Systematic Review of the Use of Telepsychiatry in Depression.
Abstract: Telepsychiatry, the use of televideo in psychiatric assessment and treatment, is utilized throughout Canada. Major depressive disorder (MDD) is common, with significant burdens of suffering and cost. This systematic review explores the literature on the use of televideo to diagnose and treat MDD, particularly acceptability and patient satisfaction, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness. A literature search was conducted for years 1946 to 2019. Study eligibility criteria included: MDD as the condition of interest, use of televideo technology, randomized controlled trials (RCTs), Adult (18 years or older) population, any clinical setting, and any healthcare professional providing care. The study must have included at least one of the following measures, satisfaction, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness. Fourteen studies were included. Satisfaction is equivalent to or significantly higher than face-to-face intervention. Both televideo and control groups found relief from depressive symptoms, with differences either statistically insignificant or in favour of televideo. Despite increased cost upfront for televideo due to the technology required, televideo would eventually be more cost-effective due to reducing travel expenses. Limitations include that there is little RCT data, and what exists often uses a collaborative treatment model. Many studies consisted solely of U.S. Veterans, and have limited generalizability. Further research needed to directly compare psychiatrist assessment over televideo versus in-person, and determine if particular patient subgroups benefit more from televideo or in-person intervention.Systematic review registration number: CRD42016048224.
Label Included: 0

Title: Validation of an integrated service model, Health-RESPECT, for older patients in long-term care institution using information and communication technologies: protocol of a cluster randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: There is an increased healthcare need to manage institutionalised older patients owing to the ageing population. To overcome substantial future challenges, the Health-RESPECT (caRE Systems for Patients/Elderly with Coordinated care using icT), a new information and communication technologies based integrated management service model, was developed to provide effective management, enable consultation with distant professionals and share medical information between acute care hospitals and long-term care institutions.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A cluster randomised controlled trial will be conducted to examine the effectiveness of the Health-RESPECT in older patients with chronic diseases and their medical staff in charge. Intervention involves registration with simple comprehensive geriatric assessment, establishment of an individualised care plan for three chronic diseases (hypertension, diabetes and heart failure), medication and rehabilitation management, periodic video-conference and in-system assessment after intervention period. Primary outcomes are control levels of the three chronic diseases, adequacy of drug management and overall functional status. Patients will be assessed at before and after study period and 3 months after study ended. Analysis will be carried out with an intention-to-treat principle. In addition to evaluate intervention effects, clinical usability and economic evaluation will be assessed.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study protocol was reviewed and approved by the Seoul National University Bundang Hospital Institutional Review Board. Study findings will be published in peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: KCT0004360.
Label Included: 0

Title: User Perspectives of Mood-Monitoring Apps Available to Young People: Qualitative Content Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mobile health apps are increasingly available and used in a clinical context to monitor young people's mood and mental health. Despite the benefits of accessibility and cost-effectiveness, consumer engagement remains a hurdle for uptake and continued use. Hundreds of mood-monitoring apps are publicly available to young people on app stores; however, few studies have examined consumer perspectives. App store reviews held on Google and Apple platforms provide a large, rich source of naturally generated, publicly available user reviews. Although commercial developers use these data to modify and improve their apps, to date, there has been very little in-depth evaluation of app store user reviews within scientific research, and our current understanding of what makes apps engaging and valuable to young people is limited.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to gain a better understanding of what app users consider useful to encourage frequent and prolonged use of mood-monitoring apps appropriate for young people.
METHODS: A systematic approach was applied to the selection of apps and reviews. We identified mood-monitoring apps (n=53) by a combination of automated application programming interface (API) methods. We only included apps appropriate for young people based on app store age categories (apps available to those younger than 18 years). We subsequently downloaded all available user reviews via API data scraping methods and selected a representative subsample of reviews (n=1803) for manual qualitative content analysis.
RESULTS: The qualitative content analysis revealed 8 main themes: accessibility (34%), flexibility (21%), recording and representation of mood (18%), user requests (17%), reflecting on mood (16%), technical features (16%), design (13%), and health promotion (11%). A total of 6 minor themes were also identified: notification and reminders; recommendation; privacy, security, and transparency; developer; adverts; and social/community.
CONCLUSIONS: Users value mood-monitoring apps that can be personalized to their needs, have a simple and intuitive design, and allow accurate representation and review of complex and fluctuating moods. App store reviews are a valuable repository of user engagement feedback and provide a wealth of information about what users value in an app and what user needs are not being met. Users perceive mood-monitoring apps positively, but over 20% of reviews identified the need for improvement.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pediatric Teleheath: Opportunities Created by the COVID-19 and Suggestions to Sustain Its Use to Support Families of Children with Disabilities.
Abstract: AIMS: Telehealth is being rapidly adopted by physical and occupational therapists in pediatrics as a strategy to maintain services during the COVID-19 crisis. This perspective presents a mix of theoretical and practice perspectives to support the implementation of telehealth. Although research evidence is just emerging, there is sufficient indication to believe telehealth is effective. However, which telehealth strategies are best for which children and families, and which intervention goals, are not yet clear.
METHODS: We discuss how different telehealth strategies (e.g. videoconferencing, emails, phone calls, online programs) are being used to address specific intervention goals. Comments from therapists using telehealth and examples of practices in different context and with different populations are provided. We discuss how newly adopted telehealth practices could be included in future hybrid service delivery models and programs, as well as factors influencing the decision to offer face-to-face or online interventions.
CONCLUSION: Although telehealth has been implemented quickly as a response to a health care crisis, and is not a one-size-fits-all intervention, we believe it offers great opportunities to increase the accessibility, cost-effectiveness and family-centredness of our services, to best support families of children with disabilities.
Label Included: 0

Title: BeyondSilos, a Telehealth-Enhanced Integrated Care Model in the Domiciliary Setting for Older Patients: Observational Prospective Cohort Study for Effectiveness and Cost-Effectiveness Assessments.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Information and communication technology may provide domiciliary care programs with continuity of care. However, evidence about the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of information and communication technology in the context of integrated care models is relatively scarce.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of our study was to provide evidence on the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the BeyondSilos project for patients enrolled in the Badalona city pilot site in Spain.
METHODS: A quasi-experimental study was used to assess the cost-effectiveness of information and communication technology-enhanced integration of health and social care, including the third sector (intervention), compared to basic health and social care coordination (comparator). The study was conducted in Badalona between 2015 and 2016. Participants were followed for 8 months.
RESULTS: The study included 198 patients: 98 in the intervention group and 100 in the comparator group. The mean Barthel index remained unchanged in the intervention group (mean change 0.14, 95% CI -4.51 to 4.78; P=.95) but decreased in the comparator group (mean change -3.23, 95% CI -5.34 to -1.11; P=.003). Instrumental Activities of Daily Living significantly decreased in both groups: mean changes of -0.23 (95% CI -0.44 to -0.02; P=.03) and -0.33 (95% CI -0.46 to -0.20; P<.001) in the intervention and comparator groups, respectively. No differences were found in the Geriatric Depression Scale (intervention: mean change 0.28, 95% CI -0.44 to 1.01, P=.44; comparator: mean change -0.29, 95% CI -0.59 to 0.01, P=.06). The intervention showed cost-effectiveness (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio €6505.52, approximately US $7582).
CONCLUSIONS: The information and communication technology-enhanced integrated domiciliary care program was cost-effective. The beneficial effects of this approach strongly rely upon the commitment of the professional staff involved.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03111004; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/ NCT03111004.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of mHealth Devices to Screen for Atrial Fibrillation: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: With an estimated prevalence of around 3% and an about 2.5-fold increased risk of stroke, atrial fibrillation (AF) is a serious threat for patients and a high economic burden for health care systems all over the world. Patients with AF could benefit from screening through mobile health (mHealth) devices. Thus, an early diagnosis is possible with mHealth devices, and the risk for stroke can be markedly reduced by using anticoagulation therapy.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this work was to assess the cost-effectiveness of algorithm-based screening for AF with the aid of photoplethysmography wrist-worn mHealth devices. Even if prevented strokes and prevented deaths from stroke are the most relevant patient outcomes, direct costs were defined as the primary outcome.
METHODS: A Monte Carlo simulation was conducted based on a developed state-transition model; 30,000 patients for each CHA2DS2-VASc (Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, Age≥75 years, Diabetes mellitus, Stroke, Vascular disease, Age 65-74 years, Sex category [female]) score from 1 to 9 were simulated. The first simulation served to estimate the economic burden of AF without the use of mHealth devices. The second simulation served to simulate the economic burden of AF with the use of mHealth devices. Afterwards, the groups were compared in terms of costs, prevented strokes, and deaths from strokes.
RESULTS: The CHA2DS2-VASc score as well as the electrocardiography (ECG) confirmation rate had the biggest impact on costs as well as number of strokes. The higher the risk score, the lower were the costs per prevented stroke. Higher ECG confirmation rates intensified this effect. The effect was not seen in groups with lower risk scores. Over 10 years, the use of mHealth (assuming a 75% ECG confirmation rate) resulted in additional costs (€1=US $1.12) of €441, €567, €536, €520, €606, €625, €623, €692, and €847 per patient for a CHA2DS2-VASc score of 1 to 9, respectively. The number of prevented strokes tended to be higher in groups with high risk for stroke. Higher ECG confirmation rates led to higher numbers of prevented strokes. The use of mHealth (assuming a 75% ECG confirmation rate) resulted in 25 (7), -68 (-54), 98 (-5), 266 (182), 346 (271), 642 (440), 722 (599), 1111 (815), and 1116 (928) prevented strokes (fatal) for CHA2DS2-VASc score of 1 to 9, respectively. Higher device accuracy in terms of sensitivity led to even more prevented fatal strokes.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of mHealth devices to screen for AF leads to increased costs but also a reduction in the incidence of stroke. In particular, in patients with high CHA2DS2-VASc scores, the risk for stroke and death from stroke can be markedly reduced.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a Heart Failure Telemonitoring Program Through a Microsimulation Model: Cost-Utility Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF) is a major public health issue in Canada that is associated with high prevalence, morbidity, and mortality rates and high financial and social burdens. Telemonitoring (TM) has been shown to improve all-cause mortality and hospitalization rates in patients with HF. The Medly program is a TM intervention integrated as standard of care at a large Canadian academic hospital for ambulatory patients with HF that has been found to improve patient outcomes. However, the cost-effectiveness of the Medly program is yet to be determined.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to conduct a cost-utility analysis of the Medly program compared with the standard of care for HF in Ontario, Canada, from the perspective of the public health care payer.
METHODS: Using a microsimulation model, individual patient data were simulated over a 25-year time horizon to compare the costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) between the Medly program and standard care for patients with HF treated in the ambulatory care setting. Data were sourced from a Medly Program Evaluation study and literature to inform model parameters, such as Medly's effectiveness in reducing mortality and hospitalizations, health care and intervention costs, and model transition probabilities. Scenario analyses were conducted in relation to HF severity and TM deployment models. One-way deterministic effectiveness analysis and probabilistic sensitivity analysis were performed to explore the impact on the results of uncertainty in model parameters.
RESULTS: The Medly program was associated with an average total cost of Can $102,508 (US $77,626) per patient and total QALYs of 5.51 per patient compared with the average cost of Can $97,497 (US $73,831) and QALYs of 4.95 per patient in the Standard Care Group. This led to an incremental cost of Can $5011 (US $3794) and incremental QALY of 0.566, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of Can $8850 (US $6701)/QALY. Cost-effectiveness improved in relation to patients with advanced HF and with deployment models in which patients used their own equipment. Baseline and alternative scenarios consistently showed probabilities of cost-effectiveness greater than 85% at a willingness-to-pay threshold of Can $50,000 (US $37,718). Although the results showed some sensitivity to assumptions about effectiveness parameters, the intervention was found to remain cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The Medly program for patients with HF is cost-effective compared with standard care using commonly reported willingness-to-pay thresholds. This study provides evidence for decision makers on the use of TM for HF, supports the use of a nurse-led model of TM that embeds clinically validated algorithms, and informs the use of economic modeling for future evaluations of early-stage health informatics technology.
Label Included: 0

Title: Optimization of transmural care by implementation of an online expert panel to assess treatment strategy in patients suffering from colorectal cancer liver metastases: A prospective analysis.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Centralization of oncological care results in a growing demand for specialized consultations and referrals. Improved telemedicine solutions are needed to facilitate access to specialist care and select patients eligible for referral. The purpose of this quality improvement initiative was to optimize transmural care for patients suffering from colorectal cancer liver metastases through implementation of an online expert panel.
METHODS: A digital communication platform was developed to share medical data, including high-quality diagnostic imaging of patients suffering from colorectal cancer liver metastases. Feasibility of local treatment strategies was assessed by a panel of liver specialists to select patients for referral. After implementation, an observational cohort study was conducted to evaluate quality improvement in transmural care using revised Standards for Quality Improvement Reporting Excellence guidelines.
RESULTS: From September 2016-September 2018, eight hospitals were connected to the platform, covering a population of 3 m. In total, 123 cases were assessed, of which 54 (43.9%) were prevented from needless physical referral. Assessment of treatment strategy by an online expert panel significantly reduced the average lead time during multidisciplinary team meetings from 3.73 min to 2.12 min per patient (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of an online expert panel is an innovative, accessible and user-friendly way to provide cancer-specific expertise to regional hospitals. E-consultation of such panels may result in more efficient multidisciplinary team meetings and prevent fragile patients from needless referral. Sustainability of these panels however is subject to structural financial compensation, so a cost-effectiveness analysis is warranted.
Label Included: 0

Title: Whither economic evaluation in the case of COVID-19: What can the field of mental health economics contribute within the Australian context?
Abstract: COVID-19 has resulted in broad impacts on the economy and aspects of daily life including our collective mental health and well-being. The Australian health care system already faces limitations in its ability to treat people with mental health diagnoses. Australia has responded to the COVID-19 outbreak by, among other initiatives, providing reimbursement for telehealth services. However, it is unclear if these measures will be enough to manage the psychological distress, depression, anxiety and post-traumatic distress shown to accompany infectious disease outbreaks and economic shocks. Decision making has focused on the physical health ramifications of COVID-19, the avoidance of over-burdening the health care system and saving lives. We propose an alternative framework for decision making that combines life years saved with impacts on quality of life. A framework that simultaneously includes mental health and broader economic impacts into a single decision-making process would facilitate transparent and accountable decision making that can improve the overall welfare of Australian society as we continue to address the considerable challenges that the COVID-19 pandemic is creating.
Label Included: 0

Title: An Interactive Text Messaging Intervention to Improve Adherence to Option B+ Prevention of Mother-to-Child HIV Transmission in Kenya: Cost Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mobile health (mHealth) approaches offer potentially affordable ways to support the care of HIV-infected patients in overstretched health care systems. However, only few studies have analyzed the costs associated with mHealth solutions for HIV care.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the total incremental costs and incremental cost per beneficiary of an interactive SMS text messaging support intervention within a clinical trial.
METHODS: The Mobile WAChX trial (NCT02400671) evaluates an interactive semiautomated SMS text messaging intervention to improve adherence to antiretroviral therapy and retention in care among peripartum women infected with HIV in Kenya to reduce the mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Women were randomized to receive one-way versus two-way SMS text messages. Messages were sent weekly, and these messages included motivational and educational content and visit reminders; two-way messaging enabled prompt consultation with the nurse as needed. Microcosting methods were used to collect resource-use data related to implementing the Mobile WAChX SMS text messaging intervention. At 2 sites (Nairobi and Western Kenya), we conducted semistructured interviews with health personnel to identify startup and recurrent activities by obtaining information on the personnel, supplies, and equipment. Data on expenditures and prices from project expense reports, administrative records, and published government salary data were included to estimate the total incremental costs. Using a public provider perspective, we estimated incremental unit costs per beneficiary and per contact during 2017.
RESULTS: The weighted average annual incremental costs for the two-way SMS text messaging group were US $3725 per facility, US $62 per beneficiary, and US $0.85 per contact to reach 115 beneficiaries. For the one-way SMS text messaging group, the weighted average annual incremental costs were US $2542 per facility, US $41 per beneficiary, and US $0.66 per contact to reach 117 beneficiaries. The largest cost shares were for the personnel: 48.2% (US $1794/US $3725) in two-way and 32.4% (US $825/US $2542) in one-way SMS text messaging groups. Costs associated with software development and communication accounted for 29.9% (US $1872/US $6267) of the costs in both intervention arms (US $1042 vs US $830, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Cost information for budgeting and financial planning is relevant for implementing mHealth interventions in national health plans. Given the proportion of costs related to systems development, it is likely that costs per beneficiary will decline with the scale-up of the interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost to Save a Life in Heart Failure: Health Disparity Costs Lives.
Abstract: Objective The purpose of this paper is to assign a dollar value to life-saving medication, surgical procedures, and medical devices. The knowledge of the wide variation in the cost of drugs, surgery, and devices allows providers and patients to choose higher-valued therapies. Cost is a significant barrier to health. The current reimbursement system is complicated, representing a significant barrier to saving lives by promoting health disparity. Background The cost analysis of heart failure therapies is an important tool in the education of physicians, patients, and vendors of the intervention. The analysis demonstrates disparities between heart failure therapies. The cost to save a single life is calculated from annualized absolute mortality risk reduction, trial length, and estimated 10-year costs. The method allows comparisons of drugs, devices, and surgery. Methods The 10-year cost of drugs is 120 months times the cost of a drug/month as listed by the website GoodRX.com. The 10-year cost of surgery or device therapy was determined from a cost analysis found by a Google search of the literature. When wide ranges were reported, the mean value was selected. 1/absolute mortality risk reduction X 100 is the number needed to treat to save a life annualized for the mean length of the study. The cost to save a life can then be computed by the following formula: Cost/life saved = (10-year cost/annualized absolute mortality risk reduction) X (100) Results Beta-blockers and spironolactone had the lowest cost per life saved at $13,333 and $21,818, respectively. Defibrillators are the most expensive at $6,417,856. Valsartan/sacubitril has a cost of $1,127,733. Dapagliflozin, the newest class of heart failure drug, costs $4,853,200. Conclusions Calculating the cost to save a life gives insight into the value of therapies and demonstrates disparities. It is a means of comparing drugs and devices. New drug therapies are costly, not affordable, and serve as a barrier to the successful treatment of heart failure.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of hospital-based specialist palliative care for adults with advanced illness and their caregivers.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Serious illness is often characterised by physical/psychological problems, family support needs, and high healthcare resource use. Hospital-based specialist palliative care (HSPC) has developed to assist in better meeting the needs of patients and their families and potentially reducing hospital care expenditure. There is a need for clarity on the effectiveness and optimal models of HSPC, given that most people still die in hospital and also to allocate scarce resources judiciously.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of HSPC compared to usual care for adults with advanced illness (hereafter patients) and their unpaid caregivers/families.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL, CDSR, DARE and HTA database via the Cochrane Library; MEDLINE; Embase; CINAHL; PsycINFO; CareSearch; National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED) and two trial registers to August 2019, together with checking of reference lists and relevant systematic reviews, citation searching and contact with experts to identify additional studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the impact of HSPC on outcomes for patients or their unpaid caregivers/families, or both. HSPC was defined as specialist palliative care delivered by a palliative care team that is based in a hospital providing holistic care, co-ordination by a multidisciplinary team, and collaboration between HSPC providers and generalists. HSPC was provided to patients while they were admitted as inpatients to acute care hospitals, outpatients or patients receiving care from hospital outreach teams at home. The comparator was usual care, defined as inpatient or outpatient hospital care without specialist palliative care input at the point of entry into the study, community care or hospice care provided outside of the hospital setting.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. We assessed risk of bias and extracted data. To account for use of different scales across studies, we calculated standardised mean differences (SMDs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for continuous data. We used an inverse variance random-effects model. For binary data, we calculated odds ratio (ORs) with 95% CIs. We assessed the evidence using GRADE and created a 'Summary of findings' table. Our primary outcomes were patient health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and symptom burden (a collection of two or more symptoms). Key secondary outcomes were pain, depression, satisfaction with care, achieving preferred place of death, mortality/survival, unpaid caregiver burden, and cost-effectiveness. Qualitative data was analysed where available.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified 42 RCTs involving 7779 participants (6678 patients and 1101 caregivers/family members). Twenty-one studies were with cancer populations, 14 were with non-cancer populations (of which six were with heart failure patients), and seven with mixed cancer and non-cancer populations (mixed diagnoses). HSPC was offered in different ways and included the following models: ward-based, inpatient consult, outpatient, hospital-at-home or hospital outreach, and service provision across multiple settings which included hospital. For our main analyses, we pooled data from studies reporting adjusted endpoint values. Forty studies had a high risk of bias in at least one domain. Compared with usual care, HSPC improved patient HRQoL with a small effect size of 0.26 SMD over usual care (95% CI 0.15 to 0.37; I2 = 3%, 10 studies, 1344 participants, low-quality evidence, higher scores indicate better patient HRQoL). HSPC also improved other person-centred outcomes. It reduced patient symptom burden with a small effect size of -0.26 SMD over usual care (95% CI -0.41 to -0.12; I2 = 0%, 6 studies, 761 participants, very low-quality evidence, lower scores indicate lower symptom burden). HSPC improved patient satisfaction with care with a small effect size of 0.36 SMD over usual care (95% CI 0.41 to 0.57; I2 = 0%, 2 studies, 337 participants, low-quality evidence, higher scores indicate better patient satisfaction with care). Using home death as a proxy measure for achieving patient's preferred place of death, patients were more likely to die at home with HSPC compared to usual care (OR 1.63, 95% CI 1.23 to 2.16; I2 = 0%, 7 studies, 861 participants, low-quality evidence). Data on pain (4 studies, 525 participants) showed no evidence of a difference between HSPC and usual care (SMD -0.16, 95% CI -0.33 to 0.01; I2 = 0%, very low-quality evidence). Eight studies (N = 1252 participants) reported on adverse events and very low-quality evidence did not demonstrate an effect of HSPC on serious harms. Two studies (170 participants) presented data on caregiver burden and both found no evidence of effect of HSPC (very low-quality evidence). We included 13 economic studies (2103 participants). Overall, the evidence on cost-effectiveness of HSPC compared to usual care was inconsistent among the four full economic studies. Other studies that used only partial economic analysis and those that presented more limited resource use and cost information also had inconsistent results (very low-quality evidence). Quality of the evidence The quality of the evidence assessed using GRADE was very low to low, downgraded due to a high risk of bias, inconsistency and imprecision.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Very low- to low-quality evidence suggests that when compared to usual care, HSPC may offer small benefits for several person-centred outcomes including patient HRQoL, symptom burden and patient satisfaction with care, while also increasing the chances of patients dying in their preferred place (measured by home death). While we found no evidence that HSPC causes serious harms, the evidence was insufficient to draw strong conclusions. Although these are only small effect sizes, they may be clinically relevant at an advanced stage of disease with limited prognosis, and are person-centred outcomes important to many patients and families. More well conducted studies are needed to study populations with non-malignant diseases and mixed diagnoses, ward-based models of HSPC, 24 hours access (out-of-hours care) as part of HSPC, pain, achieving patient preferred place of care, patient satisfaction with care, caregiver outcomes (satisfaction with care, burden, depression, anxiety, grief, quality of life), and cost-effectiveness of HSPC. In addition, research is needed to provide validated person-centred outcomes to be used across studies and populations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient Interest in Video Integration for After-Hours Telemedicine.
Abstract: PURPOSE: To understand patient attitudes, access toward video calling to enhance efficiency of after-hours triage calls.
METHODS: We surveyed patients aged 18 to 89 years. Questions included demographics, preferences, access to video calling devices, and perceived advantages and disadvantages of this technology. Answers were entered into Qualtrics database and analyzed using JMP 11 (SAS, Cary, NC).
RESULTS: Two hundred ninety-eight patients agreed to participate. Mean age was 47.9 years; 71.6% were female; and 75.1% had access to video calling device. Device proficiency was inversely related to age and greatest in 18-to-32-years group (χ2 = 71.18, P < .0001). Seventy-one percent of patients enjoyed video communication, directly proportional to education (trend test Z = 2.78, P < .005). Adjusted for both age and education, respondents with college education or above were 3 times more likely to self identify as "good' with video (OR, 3.11; 95% CI, 1.48-6.64); those under age 48 had even higher proficiency (Odds ratio (OR), 13.9; 95% CI, 4.79-59.34). Patients with prior video experience were 3 times more likely to prefer video calling (Relative risk (RR) = 3.46; 95% CI, 1.95-6.11). Patients calling their doctor 5 or more times annually preferred video calling significantly more than calling by telephone (RR, 1.61; 95% CI, 1.31-1.97). Faster contact with the primary care provider (19.8%) was the most perceived advantage. Loss of in-person interaction with doctor (37.1%) was the greatest perceived disadvantage.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients seem to have access and interest in video communication for after-hours calls. Further studies are needed to evaluate whether addition of video component to after-hours triage calls will help reduce unnecessary emergency department visits.
Label Included: 0

Title: Enhanced Recovery after Intensive Care (ERIC): study protocol for a German stepped wedge cluster randomised controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness of a critical care telehealth program on process quality and functional outcomes.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Survival after critical illness has noticeably improved over the last decades due to advances in critical care medicine. Besides, there is an increasing number of elderly patients with chronic diseases being treated in the intensive care unit (ICU). More than half of the survivors of critical illness suffer from medium-term or long-term cognitive, psychological and/or physical impairments after ICU discharge, which is recognised as post-intensive care syndrome (PICS). There are evidence-based and consensus-based quality indicators (QIs) in intensive care medicine, which have a positive influence on patients' long-term outcomes if adhered to.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The protocol of a multicentre, pragmatic, stepped wedge cluster randomised controlled, quality improvement trial is presented. During 3 predefined steps, 12 academic hospitals in Berlin and Brandenburg, Germany, are randomly selected to move in a one-way crossover from the control to the intervention condition. After a multifactorial training programme on QIs and clinical outcomes for site personnel, ICUs will receive an adapted, interprofessional protocol for a complex telehealth intervention comprising of daily telemedical rounds at ICU. The targeted sample size is 1431 patients. The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention on the adherence to eight QIs daily measured during the patient's ICU stay, compared with standard of care. Furthermore, the impact on long-term recovery such as PICS-related, patient-centred outcomes including health-related quality of life, mental health, clinical assessments of cognition and physical function, all-cause mortality and cost-effectiveness 3 and 6 months after ICU discharge will be evaluated.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This protocol was approved by the ethics committee of the Charité-Universitätsmedizin, Berlin, Germany (EA1/006/18). The results will be published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal and presented at international conferences. Study findings will also be disseminated via the website (www.eric-projekt.net).
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrials.gov Registry (NCT03671447).
Label Included: 0

Title: New technologies and future trends.
Abstract: Numerous technologies have been introduced for the diagnosis, treatment, and management of patients with neurologic disorders, offering the promise of early diagnosis, tailored and individualized interventions, improvement in quality of life, and restoration of neurologic function. Many of these technologies have become available commercially without having been evaluated by rigorous clinical trials and regulatory reviews, or at the least by peer review of results submitted for publication. A subset is intended to assess, assist, and monitor cognitive functions, motor skills, and autonomic functions and as such may be applicable to persons with developmental disabilities. Barriers that have previously limited the use of technologies by persons with neurodevelopmental disabilities are disappearing as new technologies that have the potential to substantially augment diagnosis and interventions to enhance the daily lives of persons with these disorders are emerging. While recent and future advances in technology have the potential to transform their lives, cautious and thoughtful evaluation is needed to ensure the technologies provide maximal value. As such, further work is needed to demonstrate feasibility, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness, and technologies should be designed to be optimized for individual use.
Label Included: 0

Title: Towards a conceptual framework of the working alliance in a blended low-intensity cognitive behavioural therapy intervention for depression in primary mental health care: a qualitative study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To examine and adapt a conceptual framework of the working alliance (WA) in the context of a low-intensity blended (psychological well-being practitioner (PWP) plus computerised program) cognitive behavioural therapy intervention (b-CBT) for depression.
DESIGN: Patient involvement was enlisted to collaboratively shape the design of the project from the onset, before data collection. In-depth semi-structured interviews were carried out with participants who experienced b-CBT as part of the E-compared trial. A thematic analysis was conducted using a constant comparative method informed by grounded theory.
SETTING: Recruitment was carried out in four psychological primary care services across the UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Nineteen trial participants with major depressive disorder who completed at least one computerised program and face-to-face session with a PWP in the b-CBT arm were recruited to the study.
RESULTS: Qualitative interviews that were guided by WA theory and patient involvement, revealed four themes: (1) a healthcare provider (PWP and computerised program) with good interpersonal competencies for building a working relationship with the client ('bond'); (2) collaborative efforts between the client and the provider to appropriately identify what the client hopes to achieve through therapy ('goals'); (3) the selection of acceptable therapeutic activities that address client goals and the availability of responsive support ('task') and (4) the promotion of active engagement and autonomous problem solving ('usability heuristics'). Participants described how the PWP and computerised program uniquely and collectively contributed to different WA needs.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to offer a preliminary conceptual framework of WA in b-CBT for depression, and how such demands can be addressed through blended PWP-computerised program delivery. These findings can be used to promote WA in technological design and clinical practice, thereby promoting engagement to b-CBT interventions and effective deployment of practitioner and program resources.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN12388725.
Label Included: 0

Title: Promotion of mental health in young adults via mobile phone app: study protocol of the ECoWeB (emotional competence for well-being in Young adults) cohort multiple randomised trials.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Promoting well-being and preventing poor mental health in young people is a major global priority. Building emotional competence (EC) skills via a mobile app may be an effective, scalable and acceptable way to do this. However, few large-scale controlled trials have examined the efficacy of mobile apps in promoting mental health in young people; none have tailored the app to individual profiles.
METHOD/DESIGN: The Emotional Competence for Well-Being in Young Adults cohort multiple randomised controlled trial (cmRCT) involves a longitudinal prospective cohort to examine well-being, mental health and EC in 16-22 year olds across 12 months. Within the cohort, eligible participants are entered to either the PREVENT trial (if selected EC scores at baseline within worst-performing quartile) or to the PROMOTE trial (if selected EC scores not within worst-performing quartile). In both trials, participants are randomised (i) to continue with usual practice, repeated assessments and a self-monitoring app; (ii) to additionally receive generic cognitive-behavioural therapy self-help in app; (iii) to additionally receive personalised EC self-help in app. In total, 2142 participants aged 16 to 22 years, with no current or past history of major depression, bipolar disorder or psychosis will be recruited across UK, Germany, Spain, and Belgium. Assessments take place at baseline (pre-randomisation), 1, 3 and 12 months post-randomisation. Primary endpoint and outcome for PREVENT is level of depression symptoms on the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 at 3 months; primary endpoint and outcome for PROMOTE is emotional well-being assessed on the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale at 3 months. Depressive symptoms, anxiety, well-being, health-related quality of life, functioning and cost-effectiveness are secondary outcomes. Compliance, adverse events and potentially mediating variables will be carefully monitored.
CONCLUSIONS: The trial aims to provide a better understanding of the causal role of learning EC skills using interventions delivered via mobile phone apps with respect to promoting well-being and preventing poor mental health in young people. This knowledge will be used to develop and disseminate innovative evidence-based, feasible, and effective Mobile-health public health strategies for preventing poor mental health and promoting well-being.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov ( www.clinicaltrials.org ). Number of identification: NCT04148508 November 2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Systems-based hematology: highlighting successes and next steps.
Abstract: Systems-based hematology is dedicated to improving care delivery for patients with blood disorders. First defined by the American Society of Hematology in 2015, the idea of a systems-based hematologist arose from evolving pressures in the health care system and increasing recognition of opportunities to optimize the quality and cost effectiveness of hematologic care. In this review, we begin with a proposed framework to formalize the discussion of the range of initiatives within systems-based hematology. Classification by 2 criteria, project scope and method of intervention, facilitates comparison between initiatives and supports dialogue for future efforts. Next, we present published examples of successful systems-based initiatives in the field of hematology, including efforts to improve stewardship in the diagnosis and management of complex hematologic disorders (eg, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombophilias), the development of programs to promote appropriate use of hematologic therapies (eg, blood products, inferior vena cava filters, and anticoagulation), changes in care delivery infrastructure to improve access to hematologic expertise (eg, electronic consultation and disorder-specific care pathways), and others. The range of projects illustrates the broad potential for interventions and highlights different metrics used to quantify improvements in care delivery. We conclude with a discussion about future directions for the field of systems-based hematology, including extension to malignant disorders and the need to define, expand, and support career pathways.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using telemedicine and wearable technology to establish a virtual clinic for people with Parkinson's disease.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: To develop an effective, patient-centred and sustainable service, we set up a virtual clinic (VC) for patients with Parkinson's disease, combining phone consultations and reports from wearable technology. The Parkinson's Kinetigraph (PKG) is a wrist-worn device providing objective motor assessment, generating a report used by clinicians to optimise medication regimens.
INTERVENTIONS: A pilot study of VC was designed using quality improvement methodology. For a VC appointment, patients were phoned by a clinician. After discussing symptoms and reviewing the PKG report, the clinician could decide on any medication changes or other interventions and relay this to the patient's general practitioner in a clinic letter. Patient feedback was gathered via questionnaires and data collected on the outcomes and timings of the consultations.
RESULTS: Over 12 clinics, 61 patients had VC appointments. Of questionnaire respondents, 89% were satisfied with VC (n=41). At VC, the clinician was able to make a treatment decision comparable to a face-to-face clinic in 79% of cases (n=48). Reasons appointments were deemed unsuccessful included issues with the PKG, speech or hearing problems and complex phase of disease. VC appointments, including administration time, last on average 22 min. This compares to 20 min face-to-face appointments but these do not include administration time.
CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated a safe and effective VC template. Most VC appointments are equivalent to face-to-face clinic in terms of treatment outcome. Success could be further improved by appropriate patient selection. Using VC is time saving and can result in releasing face-to-face appointment slots for those in urgent need or newly referred patients. Further cost analysis is required; the cost of the PKG alone is more expensive than a face-to-face appointment, but this does not take into account other value added, such as patient convenience and satisfaction, and reduced need for ambulance transport.
Label Included: 0

Title: Value-based approach to blood pressure telemonitoring and remote counseling in hypertensive patients.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Blood pressure telemonitoring and remote counselling (BPTM) improves blood pressure (BP) control in patients with hypertension (HTN). Studies assessing the efficacy of BPTM from a value-based perspective are lacking. We investigated whether BPTM fits all principles of the value-based approach (clinical and economic effectiveness, improvement in patient-reported outcome/experience measures (PROM/PREM)).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred and forty ambulatory patients with uncontrolled HTN were randomised in a 2: 1 manner to BPTM (n = 160, mean age 47 y.o.) and usual care (UC, n = 80; 49 y.o.) with baseline and 3-month follow-up clinic visits. BPTM employed a mobile application (for patients) and a desktop version (for clinician), which allowed communication and exchange of medical data. The main outcomes were changes in office and ambulatory systolic (S) BPs, rate of BP control. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) were evaluated in economic analysis. The MOS SF-36 score was taken as a PROM, and the PEQ score was used as a PREM.
RESULTS: Larger decreases in office and ambulatory SBPs (-16.8 and -8.9 mm Hg, respectively; p < .05) was achieved in BPTM group while the treatment intensity was equal (2.4 drugs). The ICER 11.1 EUR/-1 mm Hg 24-hour SBP/1 year was 75% effective as per willingness-to-pay threshold. BPTM improved PROM (+2.1 in mean MOS SF-36; p = .04), reduced long-term mortality (+0.11 life years gained), leading to +0.49 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained as compared with UC. The ICUR was 4 169.4 EUR/QALY gained. Patient-reported experience was higher in the BPTM (+10 PEQ, p = .01). The UC group showed minor changes in MOS SF-36 and PEQ (+1.3; +6, respectively; p n.s.).
CONCLUSIONS: Being cost-effective, BPTM incorporates both clinical benefits and patient-perceived value. Larger randomised studies are needed to confirm our findings.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Role of Telecardiology in Dealing with Patients with Cardiac Rhythm Disorders in Family Medicine - Systematic Review.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Heart rhythm disorders (HRD) are often present in patients visiting their family physician (FP). Dealing with their problems is not always simple, efficient and cost effective. The aim of this paper is to review the existing literature about the use and experience of telecardiology in patients experiencing HRD.
METHODS: We conducted a review of literature in PubMed biographical databases (MeSH thesaurus), Web of Science and Cochrane, between 1995 and 2019. We included original articles in English that describe the use of telecardiology at primary and secondary healthcare levels. Exclusion criteria are those publications that discuss heart failure or observation of the activity of pacemakers or defibrillators and the age of patients under 18 years. A total of 19 papers met the inclusion criteria, thirteen of them were original scientific articles and we included them in the analysis.
RESULTS: Use of telemedicine can shorten the time from diagnosis to the necessary treatment (2/13), telemedicine can reduce mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction (4/13), it can shorten the time to diagnose atrial fibrillations (4/13), it can help determine the diagnosis for patients complaining about heart rhythm disorders which were not detected on the standard ECG recording (2/13) and can also help identify cardiac causes for syncope or collapse (2/13). All studies have confirmed that the use of telecardiology significantly reduces the number of unnecessary referrals to a cardiologist or hospitalization, and shortens the time needed to treat patients with life-threatening conditions.
CONCLUSION: The use of telecardiological techniques increases the quality and safety of work in managing patients with cardiovascular disease in FP practice. Usage of telecardiologic devices can also save money and bridge the gap between the primary and secondary healthcare levels.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Technological Impact of COVID-19 on the Future of Education and Health Care Delivery.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The unexpected COVID-19 crisis has disrupted medical education and patient care in unprecedented ways. Despite the challenges, the health-care system and patients have been both creative and resilient in finding robust "temporary" solutions to these challenges. It is not clear if some of these COVID-era transitional steps will be preserved in the future of medical education and telemedicine.
OBJECTIVES: The goal of this commentary is to address the sometimes substantial changes in medical education, continuing medical education (CME) activities, residency and fellowship programs, specialty society meetings, and telemedicine, and to consider the value of some of these profound shifts to "business as usual" in the health-care sector.
METHODS: This is a commentary is based on the limited available literature, online information, and the front-line experiences of the authors.
RESULTS: COVID-19 has clearly changed residency and fellowship programs by limiting the amount of hands-on time physicians could spend with patients. Accreditation Council for Graduate Medicine Education has endorsed certain policy changes to promote greater flexibility in programs but still rigorously upholds specific standards. Technological interventions such as telemedicine visits with patients, virtual meetings with colleagues, and online interviews have been introduced, and many trainees are "techno-omnivores" who are comfortable using a variety of technology platforms and techniques. Webinars and e-learning are gaining traction now, and their use, practicality, and cost-effectiveness may make them important in the post-COVID era. CME activities have migrated increasingly to virtual events and online programs, a trend that may also continue due to its practicality and cost-effectiveness. While many medical meetings of specialty societies have been postponed or cancelled altogether, technology allows for virtual meetings that may offer versatility and time-saving opportunities for busy clinicians. It may be that future medical meetings embrace a hybrid approach of blending digital with face-to-face experience. Telemedicine was already in place prior to the COVID-19 crisis but barriers are rapidly coming down to its widespread use and patients seem to embrace this, even as health-care systems navigate the complicated issues of cybersecurity and patient privacy. Regulatory guidance may be needed to develop safe, secure, and patient-friendly telehealth applications. Telemedicine has affected the prescribing of controlled substances in which online counseling, informed consent, and follow-up must be done in a virtual setting. For example, pill counts can be done in a video call and patients can still get questions answered about their pain therapy, although it is likely that after the crisis, prescribing controlled substances may revert to face-to-face visits.
LIMITATIONS: The health-care system finds itself in a very fluid situation at the time this was written and changes are still occurring and being assessed.
CONCLUSIONS: Many of the technological changes imposed so abruptly on the health-care system by the COVID-19 pandemic may be positive and it may be beneficial that some of these transitions be preserved or modified as we move forward. Clinicians must be objective in assessing these changes and retaining those changes that clearly improve health-care education and patient care as we enter the COVID era.
Label Included: 0

Title: Now Is the Time to Teach Patients to Use Communication Technology-Based Services.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost of Tuberculosis Therapy Directly Observed on Video for Health Departments and Patients in New York City; San Francisco, California; and Rhode Island (2017-2018).
Abstract: Objectives. To assess costs of video and traditional in-person directly observed therapy (DOT) for tuberculosis (TB) treatment to health departments and patients in New York City, Rhode Island, and San Francisco, California.Methods. We collected health department costs for video DOT (VDOT; live and recorded), and in-person DOT (field- and clinic-based). Time-motion surveys estimated provider time and cost. A separate survey collected patient costs. We used a regression model to estimate cost by DOT type.Results. Between August 2017 and June 2018, 343 DOT sessions were captured from 225 patients; 87 completed a survey. Patient costs were lowest for VDOT live ($1.01) and highest for clinic DOT ($34.53). The societal (health department + patient) costs of VDOT live and recorded ($6.65 and $12.64, respectively) were less than field and clinic DOT ($21.40 and $46.11, respectively). VDOT recorded health department cost was not statistically different from field DOT cost in Rhode Island.Conclusions. Among the 4 different modalities, both types of VDOT were associated with lower societal costs when compared with traditional forms of DOT.Public Health Implications. VDOT was associated with lower costs from the societal perspective and may reduce public health costs when TB incidence is high.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of a Continuous Glucose Monitoring Mobile App for Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: Analysis Simulation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Apps for real-time continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) on smartphones and other devices linked to CGM systems have recently been developed, and such CGM apps are also coming into use in Japan. In comparison with conventional retrospective CGM, the use of CGM apps improves patients' own blood glucose control, which is expected to help slow the progression of type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) and prevent complications, but the effect of their introduction on medical costs remains unknown.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective in this study was to perform an economic appraisal of CGM apps from the viewpoint of assessing public medical costs associated with type 2 DM, using the probability of developing type 2 DM-associated complications, and data on medical costs and utility value to carry out a medical cost simulation using a Markov model in order to ascertain the cost-effectiveness of the apps.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model with the transition states of insulin therapy, nephrosis, dialysis, and cardiovascular disease, all of which have a major effect on medical costs, to identify changes in medical costs and utility values resulting from the introduction of a CGM app and calculated the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: The ICER for CGM app use was US $33,039/quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Sensitivity analyses showed that, with the exception of conditions where the transition probability of insulin therapy, utility value, or increased medical costs increases, the ICER for the introduction of CGM apps was below the threshold of US $43,478/QALY used by the Central Social Insurance Medical Council. Our results provide basic data on the cost-effectiveness of introducing CGM apps, which are currently starting to come into use.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic impact of clinical decision support interventions based on electronic health records.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Unnecessary healthcare utilization, non-adherence to current clinical guidelines, or insufficient personalized care are perpetual challenges and remain potential major cost-drivers for healthcare systems around the world. Implementing decision support systems into clinical care is promised to improve quality of care and thereby yield substantial effects on reducing healthcare expenditure. In this article, we evaluate the economic impact of clinical decision support (CDS) interventions based on electronic health records (EHR).
METHODS: We searched for studies published after 2014 using MEDLINE, CENTRAL, WEB OF SCIENCE, EBSCO, and TUFTS CEA registry databases that encompass an economic evaluation or consider cost outcome measures of EHR based CDS interventions. Thereupon, we identified best practice application areas and categorized the investigated interventions according to an existing taxonomy of front-end CDS tools.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Twenty-seven studies are investigated in this review. Of those, twenty-two studies indicate a reduction of healthcare expenditure after implementing an EHR based CDS system, especially towards prevalent application areas, such as unnecessary laboratory testing, duplicate order entry, efficient transfusion practice, or reduction of antibiotic prescriptions. On the contrary, order facilitators and undiscovered malfunctions revealed to be threats and could lead to new cost drivers in healthcare. While high upfront and maintenance costs of CDS systems are a worldwide implementation barrier, most studies do not consider implementation cost. Finally, four included economic evaluation studies report mixed monetary outcome results and thus highlight the importance of further high-quality economic evaluations for these CDS systems.
CONCLUSION: Current research studies lack consideration of comparative cost-outcome metrics as well as detailed cost components in their analyses. Nonetheless, the positive economic impact of EHR based CDS interventions is highly promising, especially with regard to reducing waste in healthcare.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effective Smartphone-Based Articulable Endoscope Systems for Developing Countries: Instrument Validation Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Endoscopes are widely used for visualizing the respiratory tract, urinary tract, uterus, and gastrointestinal tracts. Despite high demand, people in underdeveloped and developing countries cannot obtain proper access to endoscopy. Moreover, commercially available endoscopes are mostly nonarticulable as well as not actively controlled, limiting their use. Articulating endoscopes are required for some diagnosis procedures, due to their ability to image wide areas of internal organs. Furthermore, actively controlled articulating endoscopes are less likely to harm the lumen than rigid endoscopes because they can avoid contact with endothelial tissues.
OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to demonstrate the feasibility and acceptability of smartphone-based wide-field articulable endoscope system for minimally invasive clinical applications in developing and less developed countries.
METHODS: A thin articulable endoscope system that can be attached to and actively controlled by a smartphone was designed and constructed. The system consists of a flexible endoscopic probe with a continuum mechanism, 4 motor modules for articulation, a microprocessor for controlling the motor with a smartphone, and a homebuilt app for streaming, capturing, adjusting images and video, and controlling the motor module with a joystick-like user interface. The smartphone and motor module are connected via an integrated C-type On-The-Go (OTG) USB hub.
RESULTS: We tested the device in several human-organ phantoms to evaluate the usability and utility of the smartphone-based articulating endoscope system. The resolution (960 × 720 pixels) of the device was found to be acceptable for medical diagnosis. The maximum bending angle of 110° was designed. The distance from the base of the articulating module to the tip of the endoscope was 45 mm. The angle of the virtual arc was 40.0°, for a curvature of 0.013. The finest articulation resolution was 8.9°. The articulating module succeeded in imaging all 8 octants of a spherical target, as well as all 4 quadrants of the indices marked in human phantoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The portable wide-field endoscope was successfully controlled using a smartphone, yielding clear images with a resolution of 960 × 720 pixels at realistic focal distances. Actively and precisely controlled articulating movements have resulted in minimally invasive monitoring in the narrow space of internal organs providing a wide-area view. We found our smartphone-based active articulated endoscope to be suitable for point-of-care applications in developing and less developed countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health Economic Analysis of Postoperative Video Telemedicine Visits to Patients' Homes.
Abstract: Abstract Importance: A postoperative video telemedicine follow-up program was introduced by the Mayo Clinic. An attempt was made to understand the potential cost savings to patients before contemplating full-scale expansion across all potentially eligible surgical patients and practices. Objective: The primary purpose was to estimate potential cost savings to patients with video telemedicine follow-up to home compared with face-to-face follow-up in a standard clinic setting. Design: The research was designed collaboratively by the Center for Connected Care and the surgical practice to address the question of estimated cost savings of postoperative video telemedicine visits. The intervention arm is the postoperative video telemedicine follow-up visit to home setting and the comparator is the face-to-face visit at Mayo Clinic. Setting: Large, integrated, academic multispecialty practice supporting patient care delivery, research, and education. Participants: The population under study comprised routine uncomplicated postoperative patients who underwent video telemedicine or face-to-face follow-up visits that fell within the 90-day global period across multiple (general, neurosurgery, plastic, thoracic, transplant, and urology) surgical specialties. Main Outcome(s) and Measure(s): Economic outcomes were cost of travel, accommodations, meals, and missed work. Additional outcomes included time expenditure and patient satisfaction. Cost/benefit analysis unit was US dollars (USD). All costs were inflated to 2018 USD, using the Gross Domestic Product Implicit price deflator. Results: Patients who utilized video telemedicine rather than face-to-face clinic visit for postoperative follow-up were estimated to save $888 per visit on average. More specifically, patients residing more than 1,635 miles round trip from clinic saved an estimated $1,501 per visit and patients not needing accommodation still saved an estimated $256 per visit. Patient satisfaction over video telemedicine postoperative follow-up visits remained high over the 6-year period of study. Conclusions and Relevance: The use of video telemedicine for routine uncomplicated postoperative follow-up visits to replace face-to-face follow-up visits has the potential to be financially advantageous for patients. Key points Question: For postoperative patients, what are the health economic outcomes associated with video telemedicine follow-up to home compared with face-to-face follow-up in a standard clinic setting? Findings: Video telemedicine offers a cost benefit for patients through avoidance of travel costs and missed work. Meaning: For uncomplicated routine postoperative follow-up visits, video telemedicine is a less costly alternative for most patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Increasing value, reducing waste: tailoring the application of dental sealants according to individual caries risk.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Despite a significant national investment in oral health, there is little understanding of the return in terms of quality. Value-based payments aim to refocus provider reimbursement based on the value created to the patient. Our objectives were to apply a set of dental quality measures to help determine the value of preventive dental care provided to children at two academic dental school clinics.
METHODS: We queried the institutional electronic health records (EHRs) for patients between the ages of 6-14 years with sealable first or second permanent molars, determined caries risk status, identified if dental sealants were placed, and finally if the teeth showed evidence of new caries experience. In order to determine the cost-effectiveness of EHR-based triage of applying dental sealants, we calculated the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for the dental quality measures supported sealing program.
RESULTS: Between the two academic sites, there were 6,155 unique children for a total of 12,302 eligible teeth without a sealant and 32,811 eligible teeth with a sealant. Teeth without a sealant were more likely to have decay (4.8 percent) than those with a sealant (1.7 percent). At both sites, patients with high caries risk were more likely to benefit from sealants compared to those patients with low risk.
CONCLUSION: Implementation of caries risk stratified fissure sealant quality measures demonstrates the potential for extracting better value in oral health care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Benefits of Home-Based Solutions for Diagnosis and Treatment of Acute Coronary Syndromes on Health Care Costs: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Diagnosing and treating acute coronary syndromes consumes a significant fraction of the healthcare budget worldwide. The pressure on resources is expected to increase with the continuing rise of cardiovascular disease, other chronic diseases and extended life expectancy, while expenditure is constrained. The objective of this review is to assess if home-based solutions for measuring chemical cardiac biomarkers can mitigate or reduce the continued rise in the costs of ACS treatment. A systematic review was performed considering published literature in several relevant public databases (i.e., PUBMED, Cochrane, Embase and Scopus) focusing on current biomarker practices in high-risk patients, their cost-effectiveness and the clinical evidence and feasibility of implementation. Out of 26,000 references screened, 86 met the inclusion criteria after independent full-text review. Current clinical evidence highlights that home-based solutions implemented in primary and secondary prevention reduce health care costs by earlier diagnosis, improved patient outcomes and quality of life, as well as by avoidance of unnecessary use of resources. Economical evidence suggests their potential to reduce health care costs if the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio or the willingness-to-pay does not surpass £20,000/QALY or €50,000 limit per 20,000 patients, respectively. The cost-effectiveness of these solutions increases when applied to high-risk patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in COPD: An Overview by Topics.
Abstract: COPD is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide and carries a huge and growing economic and social burden. Telemedicine might allow the care of patients with limited access to health services and improve their self-management. During the COVID-19 pandemic, patient's safety represents one of the main reasons why we might use these tools to manage our patients. The authors conducted a literature search in MEDLINE database. The retrieval form of the Medical Subject Headings (Mesh) was ((Telemedicine OR Tele-rehabilitation OR Telemonitoring OR mHealth OR Ehealth OR Telehealth) AND COPD). We only included systematic reviews, reviews, meta-analysis, clinical trials and randomized-control trials, in the English language, with the selected search items in title or abstract, and published from January 1st 2015 to 31st May 2020 (n = 56). There was a positive tendency toward benefits in tele-rehabilitation, health-education and self-management, early detection of COPD exacerbations, psychosocial support and smoking cessation, but the heterogeneity of clinical trials and reviews limits the extent to which this value can be understood. Telemonitoring interventions and cost-effectiveness had contradictory results. The literature on teleconsultation was scarce during this period. The non-inferiority tendency of telemedicine programmes comparing to conventional COPD management seems an opportunity to deliver quality healthcare to COPD patients, with a guarantee of patient's safety, especially during the COVID-19 outbreak.
Label Included: 0

Title: Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing Analysis of Telemedicine Services in Radiation Oncology.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Health systems have increased telemedicine use during the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak to limit in-person contact. We used time-driven activity-based costing to evaluate the change in resource use associated with transitioning to telemedicine in a radiation oncology department.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Using a patient undergoing 28-fraction treatment as an example, process maps for traditional in-person and telemedicine-based workflows consisting of discrete steps were created. Physicians/physicists/dosimetrists and nurses were assumed to work remotely 3 days and 1 day per week, respectively. Mapping was informed by interviews and surveys of personnel, with cost estimates obtained from the department's financial officer.
RESULTS: Transitioning to telemedicine reduced provider costs by $586 compared with traditional workflow: $47 at consultation, $280 during treatment planning, $237 during on-treatment visits, and $22 during the follow-up visit. Overall, cost savings were $347 for space/equipment and $239 for personnel. From an employee perspective, the total amount saved each year by not commuting was $36,718 for physicians (7243 minutes), $19,380 for physicists (7243 minutes), $17,286 for dosimetrists (7210 minutes), and $5599 for nurses (2249 minutes). Patients saved $170 per treatment course.
CONCLUSIONS: A modified workflow incorporating telemedicine visits and work-from-home capability conferred savings to a department as well as significant time and costs to health care workers and patients alike.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine and Medical Education in the Age of COVID-19.
Abstract: The COVID-19 pandemic has offered medical schools an opportunity to incorporate telemedicine training into the curricula in a timely and practical manner. Telemedicine has grown exponentially in the United States, and the shift toward remote care to align with social distancing guidelines is fueling this growth. Training medical students to deliver high-quality, secure, and personalized health care through telemedicine will prepare the next generation of physicians to conscientiously use these technologies and meet a growing need for telehealth services. Telemedicine-specific educational goals can be incorporated into curricula and integrated with existing clinical experiences to provide students with core telemedicine and clinical skills to prepare them for current and future pandemics. Medical educators could explore 5 major telemedicine domains: (1) access to care, (2) cost, (3) cost-effectiveness, (4) patient experience, and (5) clinician experience. Schools could use the following learning vehicles to help medical students explore these domains: (1) asynchronous lectures covering telehealth history; (2) discussions on applications, ethics, safety, etiquette, and patient considerations; (3) faculty-supervised standardized patient telehealth encounters; and (4) hands-on diagnostic or therapeutic procedures using telehealth equipment. Incorporating telemedicine into the medical school curriculum exposes students to the application of telemedicine across specialties as well as its limitations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical and cost-effectiveness of a guided internet-based Acceptance and Commitment Therapy to improve chronic pain-related disability in green professions (PACT-A): study protocol of a pragmatic randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Chronic pain is highly prevalent, associated with substantial personal and economic burdens, and increased risk for mental disorders. Individuals in green professions (agriculturists, horticulturists, foresters) show increased prevalence of chronic pain and other risk factors for mental disorders. Available healthcare services in rural areas are limited. Acceptance towards face-to-face therapy is low. Internet and mobile-based interventions (IMIs) based on Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) might be a promising alternative for this population and may enable effective treatment of chronic pain. The present study aims to evaluate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of an ACT-based IMI for chronic pain in green professions in comparison with enhanced treatment as usual (TAU+).
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A two-armed pragmatic randomised controlled trial will be conducted. Two hundred eighty-six participants will be randomised and allocated to either an intervention or TAU+ group. Entrepreneurs in green professions, collaborating spouses, family members and pensioners with chronic pain are eligible for inclusion. The intervention group receives an internet-based intervention based on ACT (7 modules, over 7 weeks) guided by a trained e-coach to support adherence (eg, by positive reinforcement). Primary outcome is pain interference (Multidimensional Pain Interference scale; MPI) at 9 weeks post-randomisation. Secondary outcomes are depression severity (Quick Inventory Depressive Symptomology; QIDS-SR16), incidence of major depressive disorder, quality of life (Assessment of Quality of Life; AQoL-8D) and possible side effects associated with the treatment (Inventory for the Assessment of Negative Effects of Psychotherapy; INEP). Psychological flexibility (Chronic Pain Acceptance Questionnaire, Committed Action Questionnaire, Cognitive Fusion Questionnaire) will be evaluated as a potential mediator of the treatment effect. Furthermore, mediation, moderation and health-economic analyses from a societal perspective will be performed. Outcomes will be measured using online self-report questionnaires at baseline, 9-week, 6-month, 12-month, 24-month and 36-month follow-ups.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the University of Ulm, Germany (file no. 453/17-FSt/Sta; 22 February 2018). Results will be submitted for publication in peer-reviewed journals and presented at conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: German Clinical Trial Registration: DRKS00014619. Registered on 16 April 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Affordable digital innovation to reduce SARS-CoV-2 transmission among healthcare workers.
Abstract: In the South African public healthcare sector, patient medical records are still written on paper and stored in filing rooms. There has been an attempt to move towards a paperless electronic system in many public healthcare facilities, but owing to lack of funding, this has been a challenge to achieve. During the current COVID-19 pandemic, the virus could be transmitted through the physical manipulation of patient records by various categories of staff who handle the records with or without gloves for protection. We discuss a digital option that has been partially used at Tygerberg Hospital (TBH), Cape Town, to avoid SARS-CoV-2 patient hard-copy record manipulation. It includes assignment of a QR code to every patient admitted as a person under investigation or confirmed COVID-19 case. The QR code is synced to one of the many free online medical notes smartphone applications (apps), which are password-protected with patient information privacy regulations (Trello is used at TBH), for daily medical notes review and editing. Upon discharge, all notes made during the patient's hospital stay, together with the discharge summary, are printed to generate a hard copy of notes for filing to avoid violation of the current national and provincial patient records policy. Doing this means that a patient will have a virtual online file through the designated app until discharge, when a physical file will be made for storage and safekeeping. It will keep physical manipulation of patient records to the minimum, and potentially assist in reducing transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus among healthcare workers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital Interventions for Screening and Treating Common Mental Disorders or Symptoms of Common Mental Illness in Adults: Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Digital interventions targeting common mental disorders (CMDs) or symptoms of CMDs are growing rapidly and gaining popularity, probably in response to the increased prevalence of CMDs and better awareness of early help-seeking and self-care. However, no previous systematic reviews that focus on these novel interventions were found.
OBJECTIVE: This systematic review aims to scope entirely web-based interventions that provided screening and signposting for treatment, including self-management strategies, for people with CMDs or subthreshold symptoms. In addition, a meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of these interventions for mental well-being and mental health outcomes.
METHODS: Ten electronic databases including MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and EMBASE were searched from January 1, 1999, to early April 2020. We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated a digital intervention (1) targeting adults with symptoms of CMDs, (2) providing both screening and signposting to other resources including self-care, and (3) delivered entirely through the internet. Intervention characteristics including target population, platform used, key design features, and outcome measure results were extracted and compared. Trial outcome results were included in a meta-analysis on the effectiveness of users' well-being and mental health outcomes. We also rated the meta-analysis results with the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations approach to establish the quality of the evidence.
RESULTS: The electronic searches yielded 21 papers describing 16 discrete digital interventions. These interventions were investigated in 19 unique trials including 1 (5%) health economic study. Most studies were conducted in Australia and North America. The targeted populations varied from the general population to allied health professionals. All interventions offered algorithm-driven screening with measures to assess symptom levels and to assign treatment options including automatic web-based psychoeducation, self-care strategies, and signposting to existing services. A meta-analysis of usable trial data showed that digital interventions improved well-being (3 randomized controlled trials [RCTs]; n=1307; standardized mean difference [SMD] 0.40; 95% CI 0.29 to 0.51; I2=28%; fixed effect), symptoms of mental illness (6 RCTs; n=992; SMD -0.29; 95% CI -0.49 to -0.09; I2=51%; random effects), and work and social functioning (3 RCTs; n=795; SMD -0.16; 95% CI -0.30 to -0.02; I2=0%; fixed effect) compared with waitlist or attention control. However, some follow-up data failed to show any sustained effects beyond the post intervention time point. Data on mechanisms of change and cost-effectiveness were also lacking, precluding further analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Digital mental health interventions to assess and signpost people experiencing symptoms of CMDs appear to be acceptable to a sufficient number of people and appear to have enough evidence for effectiveness to warrant further study. We recommend that future studies incorporate economic analysis and process evaluation to assess the mechanisms of action and cost-effectiveness to aid scaling of the implementation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Person-centred eHealth intervention for patients on sick leave due to common mental disorders: study protocol of a randomised controlled trial and process evaluation (PROMISE).
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The number of people dealing with common mental disorders (CMDs) is a major concern in many countries, including Sweden. Sickness absence resulting from CMDs is often long-lasting and advancing return to work is a complex process impacted by several factors, among which self-efficacy appears to be an important personal resource. Person-centred care (PCC) has previously shown positive effects on self-efficacy however this needs to be further investigated in relation to patients with CMDs and in an eHealth context.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This study is an open randomised controlled trial comparing a control group receiving standard care with an intervention group receiving standard care plus PCC by telephone and a digital platform. The primary outcome measure is a composite score of changes in sick leave and self-efficacy. Participants will include 220 primary care patients on sick leave due to CMDs and data will mainly be collected through questionnaires at baseline and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months from the inclusion date. Inclusion is ongoing and expected to be completed during the fall of 2020. A process and health economic evaluation will also be conducted.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study was approved by the Regional Ethical Review Board in Gothenburg, Sweden. Results will be published in peer-reviewed scientific journals and presented at national and international scientific conferences. This project is part of a broader research programme conducted at the Gothenburg Centre for Person-Centred Care (GPCC), where extensive work is undertaken to disseminate knowledge on and implementation of PCC.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03404583.
Label Included: 0

Title: No-Shows in Adult Urology Outpatient Clinics: Economic and Operational Implications.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: We analyzed trends and explored implications of no-show rates in adult urology from provider related characteristics at an academic program.
METHODS: No-show rates were determined from electronic health records of appointments in adult urology at Duke University Medical Center and affiliated clinics between January 2014 and December 2016. t-Test, Wilcoxon rank sum and ANOVA were employed.
RESULTS: Of 72,571 total appointments 13,219 (18.2%) were no-shows. The no-show rates per provider related characteristic were provider type (physician 22.1% vs advanced primary provider 34.0%), visit category (new 26.9% vs return 25.6% vs procedure 17.5%), faculty status (assistant 22.9% vs associate 21.9% vs professor 21.4%) and specialty (oncology 26.7% vs reconstructive 22.9% vs stones 25.4%). Average lead times of advanced primary practitioners and physicians were 47 and 62 days, respectively. There was a statistically significant difference in mean no-show rates by provider type (p <0.01) and new patient by provider type (p <0.01). However, there was no statistical difference in mean rates by specialty, faculty status, provider bump history, provider based visit types and average lead time. The potential loss in revenue from outpatient no-shows is at least $429,810 annually.
CONCLUSIONS: Provider type and new patient visits by provider type have statistically different no-show rates. Missed appointments are costly and affect clinical efficiency, access to care and potentially patient outcomes. Given the shift toward value based care and future workforce changes, further investigations are needed to determine interventions to help reduce no-show rates. Models to predict and adjust clinics should be developed and deployed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Atrial Fibrillation Screen, Management, and Guideline-Recommended Therapy in the Rural Primary Care Setting: A Cross-Sectional Study and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of eHealth Tools to Support All Stages of Screening.
Abstract: BACKGROUND Internationally, most atrial fibrillation (AF) management guidelines recommend opportunistic screening for AF in people ≥65 years of age and oral anticoagulant treatment for those at high stroke risk (CHA₂DS₂-VA≥2). However, gaps remain in screening and treatment. METHODS AND RESULTS General practitioners/nurses at practices in rural Australia (n=8) screened eligible patients (≥65 years of age without AF) using a smartphone ECG during practice visits. eHealth tools included electronic prompts, guideline-based electronic decision support, and regular data reports. Clinical audit tools extracted de-identified data. Results were compared with an earlier study in metropolitan practices (n=8) and nonrandomized control practices (n=69). Cost-effectiveness analysis compared population-based screening with no screening and included screening, treatment, and hospitalization costs for stroke and serious bleeding events. Patients (n=3103, 34%) were screened (mean age, 75.1±6.8 years; 47% men) and 36 (1.2%) new AF cases were confirmed (mean age, 77.0 years; 64% men; mean CHA₂DS₂-VA, 3.2). Oral anticoagulant treatment rates for patients with CHA₂DS₂-VA≥2 were 82% (screen detected) versus 74% (preexisting AF)(P=NS), similar to metropolitan and nonrandomized control practices. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for population-based screening was AU$16 578 per quality-adjusted life year gained and AU$84 383 per stroke prevented compared with no screening. National implementation would prevent 147 strokes per year. Increasing the proportion screened to 75% would prevent 177 additional strokes per year. CONCLUSIONS An AF screening program in rural practices, supported by eHealth tools, screened 34% of eligible patients and was cost-effective. Oral anticoagulant treatment rates were relatively high at baseline, trending upward during the study. Increasing the proportion screened would prevent many more strokes with minimal incremental cost-effectiveness ratio change. eHealth tools, including data reports, may be a valuable addition to future programs. REGISTRATION URL: https://www.anzctr.org.au. Unique identifier: ACTRN12618000004268.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine: An Innovative Twist to Primary Health Care in Rural Bangladesh.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Health care service is worsening in the remote villages due to less complete and further away of healthcare facilities and service and makes this service costs compared to those of urban people. Telemedicine service provides a potential solution regarding this particular issue. This study provides empirical evidence of the benefits package consists of hypothetical telemedicine service and evaluates the economic benefit of telemedicine service.
METHODS: The study measures marginal willingness-to-pay (MWTP) responses to policy change on a sample (n = 203) observations. A randomized conjoint experiment has conducted in 7 remote villages of 3 coastal districts of the southwest coastal region of Bangladesh. Each respondent ranks 3 options-two hypothetical alternatives and the telemedicine status quo scheme. The level of attributes-payment for telemedicine service, sample collection from home, medicine delivery to home, capitation through online technology, service delivery frequency, and blood pressure and glucose measure at home-are randomly and jointly assigned to the 2 alternatives.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Coastal villagers would like to pay more in option 4 and above. The lower payment for telemedicine service does not necessarily imply low demand for telemedicine, as the findings from MWTP illustrate potential demand for telemedicine in coastal villages in Bangladesh.
Label Included: 0

Title: Barriers to Implementing Clinical Pharmacogenetics Testing in Sub-Saharan Africa. A Critical Review.
Abstract: Clinical research in high-income countries is increasingly demonstrating the cost- effectiveness of clinical pharmacogenetic (PGx) testing in reducing the incidence of adverse drug reactions and improving overall patient care. Medications are prescribed based on an individual's genotype (pharmacogenes), which underlies a specific phenotypic drug response. The advent of cost-effective high-throughput genotyping techniques coupled with the existence of Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) dosing guidelines for pharmacogenetic "actionable variants" have increased the clinical applicability of PGx testing. The implementation of clinical PGx testing in sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries can significantly improve health care delivery, considering the high incidence of communicable diseases, the increasing incidence of non-communicable diseases, and the high degree of genetic diversity in these populations. However, the implementation of PGx testing has been sluggish in SSA, prompting this review, the aim of which is to document the existing barriers. These include under-resourced clinical care logistics, a paucity of pharmacogenetics clinical trials, scientific and technical barriers to genotyping pharmacogene variants, and socio-cultural as well as ethical issues regarding health-care stakeholders, among other barriers. Investing in large-scale SSA PGx research and governance, establishing biobanks/bio-databases coupled with clinical electronic health systems, and encouraging the uptake of PGx knowledge by health-care stakeholders, will ensure the successful implementation of pharmacogenetically guided treatment in SSA.
Label Included: 0

Title: Human-Technology Interaction Considerations in Hearing Health Care: An Introduction for Audiologists.
Abstract: Purpose Innovations in user-driven hearing technology and services have placed greater control in the hands of the patient. While these advances could address issues of hearing health care accessibility, their success rests on the assumption that patients possess sufficient technological competence to self-manage these products and services successfully. The purpose of this tutorial is to highlight the importance of focusing on usability, rather than just performance outcomes, during the design, development, and evaluation of user-driven hearing technology and services. Method This tutorial explores human-technology interaction and usability and discusses practical methods for applying these concepts in hearing health care research and development. Two case studies illustrate how usability can inform the design and development of interactive educational materials for patients and the evaluation of a commercially available mHealth app. Conclusions In order to derive benefit from innovations in hearing health care, products and services must be intuitively usable in addition to being accessible and affordable. The discipline of human-technology interaction provides a relevant and useful framework to guide future research and development efforts in user-driven hearing health care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of home telerehabilitation for speech treatment in people with Parkinson's disease.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Geographical barriers and impaired physical mobility among people with Parkinson's disease (PD) hinder their timely access to speech pathology services. We compared the costs of delivering a speech treatment via in-person consultation versus telerehabilitation.
METHODS: We used data from a non-inferiority randomised controlled trial delivering the Lee Silverman Voice Treatment (LSVT LOUD®), where patients with dysarthria associated with PD were assigned to either the urban in-person group (N = 16) or the urban online group (N = 15), supplemented with a non-randomised group (regional online; N = 21). We compared costs over a one-month treatment period from a health-system perspective and a patient perspective.
RESULTS: The mean treatment costs of both urban online ($1076) and regional ($1206) treatments tended to be slightly higher than urban in-person ($1020) from a health-system perspective. From a patient perspective, the mean treatment cost was $831 in the urban in-person group, $247 in the urban online group and $200 in the regional group.
DISCUSSION: LSVT LOUD® may be delivered via telerehabilitation at a slightly higher cost than in-person delivery from a health-system perspective, but it is cost saving from a patient perspective. Telerehabilitation is an economically beneficial alternative for the delivery of the LSVT LOUD® programme in PD patients with speech disorders.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comprehensive Community Screening of Otological Patients by Trained Technicians Using a Telemedicine Device: An Efficient and Cost-Effective Way to Triage Patients With Ear Diseases.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the benefits of tele-otology in community screening of patients with ear diseases.
METHODS: A retrospective study of all patients screened and treated under the Shruti tele-otology program between 2013 and 2019 was conducted. It involved screening, diagnosis, medical management, surgical intervention, and rehabilitation using hearing aid. The study focused on underprivileged and underserved community of rural and urban slums across 12 states of India. The study was conducted using a telemedicine device called ENTraview, that is, a camera-enabled android phone integrated with an otoscope and audiometry screening.
RESULT: A total of 810 746 people were screened, and incidence of various ear diseases was recorded. Ear problems were found in 265 615 (33%) patients, of which 151 067 (57%) had impacted wax, 46 792(18%) had chronic suppurative otitis media, 27 875 (10%) had diminished hearing, 12 729 (5%) had acute otitis media and acute suppurative otitis media (ASOM), and 27 152 (10%) had problems of foreign body, otomycosis, and so on. Of the total 265 615 referred patients, 20 986 (8%) reported for treatment and received treatment at a significantly reduced cost through Shruti program partners. The conversion rate of nonsurgical and surgical procedure was also compared, and it was found that, while 9% of the patients opted for nonsurgical treatment, only 3% opted for surgery in the intervention group giving a significant P value of .00001.
CONCLUSION: The potential for telemedicine to reduce inequalities in health care is immense but remains underutilized. Shruti has largely been able to bridge this gap as it is an innovative, fast, and effective programs that address the ear ailment in the community.
Label Included: 0

Title: Personalized care management for persons with Parkinson's disease: A telenursing solution.
Abstract: Poor recognition and inadequate treatment of motor and non-motor symptoms negatively impact on the quality of life of persons with Parkinson's Disease (PD). Furthermore, failure to incorporate timely detection and management of symptoms increases the risk of partially avoidable complications. A promising approach to overcome these pitfalls is telenursing, which entails proactive care delivery by a PD Nurse Specialist (PDNS) through telephone contacts. We hypothesized that adding telenursing to usual care could fill a gap in currently available services, including offering patients easy accessibility to a nurse with specific expertise in PD. We explored this hypothesis by prospectively assessing the effects of a telenursing intervention on motor and non-motor symptoms in a patient with PD. During a threemonth intervention period which comprised 13 telephone contacts, the patient reported a remarkable reduction in number of falls, from 99 falls per three months to 3 falls per three months; and a reduction in non-motor symptoms. The main working mechanism was presumably rather indirect and mediated via alleviation of anxiety, achieved by the individually tailored information and problem-solving strategies provided by the PDNS. Our observations should encourage large-scale evaluations to assess the long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telenursing interventions in persons with PD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Automated and partly automated contact tracing: a systematic review to inform the control of COVID-19.
Abstract: Evidence for the use of automated or partly automated contact-tracing tools to contain severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 is scarce. We did a systematic review of automated or partly automated contact tracing. We searched PubMed, EMBASE, OVID Global Health, EBSCO Medical COVID Information Portal, Cochrane Library, medRxiv, bioRxiv, arXiv, and Google Advanced for articles relevant to COVID-19, severe acute respiratory syndrome, Middle East respiratory syndrome, influenza, or Ebola virus, published from Jan 1, 2000, to April 14, 2020. We also included studies identified through professional networks up to April 30, 2020. We reviewed all full-text manuscripts. Primary outcomes were the number or proportion of contacts (or subsequent cases) identified. Secondary outcomes were indicators of outbreak control, uptake, resource use, cost-effectiveness, and lessons learnt. This study is registered with PROSPERO (CRD42020179822). Of the 4036 studies identified, 110 full-text studies were reviewed and 15 studies were included in the final analysis and quality assessment. No empirical evidence of the effectiveness of automated contact tracing (regarding contacts identified or transmission reduction) was identified. Four of seven included modelling studies that suggested that controlling COVID-19 requires a high population uptake of automated contact-tracing apps (estimates from 56% to 95%), typically alongside other control measures. Studies of partly automated contact tracing generally reported more complete contact identification and follow-up compared with manual systems. Automated contact tracing could potentially reduce transmission with sufficient population uptake. However, concerns regarding privacy and equity should be considered. Well designed prospective studies are needed given gaps in evidence of effectiveness, and to investigate the integration and relative effects of manual and automated systems. Large-scale manual contact tracing is therefore still key in most contexts.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemental health for child trauma treatment during and post-COVID-19: Limitations and considerations.
Abstract: The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has led to unprecedented disruptions and stress in the lives of children and families internationally. Heightened family stress and turmoil can increase risk for, and exacerbate, child maltreatment. As a result, child maltreatment experts are concerned that there will be an influx of children requiring trauma assessment and treatment during and after COVID-19. As physical distancing measures have been implemented and will likely persist into 2021, organizations providing trauma treatment to children and their families have had to rapidly pivot to telemental health to maintain service delivery with clients. While the benefits of telemental health have been identified, including reduced barriers to access, increased cost effectiveness, and broad availability of services, there are unique limitations to its implementation within a child maltreatment population, such as challenges with attention and emotion regulation skills, difficulties identifying dissociative symptoms, and increased time with perpetrators of abuse due to shelter in place orders. These limitations are exacerbated for children and families who are most marginalized and facing the highest levels of social and economic barriers. Lack of access to reliable technology, lack of a private or confidential space for sessions, and reluctance to process trauma in the absence of a safe environment, are all barriers to conducting effective trauma treatment over telemental health. This article discusses both the benefits and barriers to telemental health in a child maltreatment population and offers considerations for child trauma service provision, program development, and policy during and post the COVID-19 pandemic.
Label Included: 0

Title: Virtual geriatric clinics and the COVID-19 catalyst: a rapid review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: During the current COVID-19 health crisis virtual geriatric clinics have become increasingly utilised to complete outpatient consultations, although concerns exist about feasibility of such virtual consultations for older people. The aim of this rapid review is to describe the satisfaction, clinic productivity, clinical benefit, and costs associated with the virtual geriatric clinic model of care.
METHODS: A rapid review of PubMed, MEDLINE and CINAHL databases was conducted up to April 2020. Two independent reviewers extracted the information. Four subdomains were focused on: satisfaction with the virtual geriatric clinic, clinic productivity, clinical benefit to patients, costs and any challenges associated with the virtual clinic process.
RESULTS: Nine studies with 975 patients met our inclusion criteria. All were observational studies. Seven studies reported patients were satisfied with the virtual geriatric clinic model of care. Productivity outcomes included reports of cost-effectiveness, savings on transport, and improved waiting list metrics. Clinical benefits included successful polypharmacy reviews, and reductions in acute hospitalisation rates. Varying challenges were reported for both clinicians and patients in eight of the nine studies. Hearing impairments and difficulty with technology added to anxieties experienced by patients. Physicians missed the added value of a thorough physical examination and had concerns about confidentiality.
CONCLUSION: Virtual geriatric clinics demonstrate evidence of productivity, benefit to patients, cost effectiveness and patient satisfaction with the treatment provided. In the current suboptimal pandemic climate, virtual geriatric clinics may allow Geriatricians to continue to provide an outpatient service, despite the encountered inherent challenges.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine, the current COVID-19 pandemic and the future: a narrative review and perspectives moving forward in the USA.
Abstract: A narrative review was conducted to examine the current state of the utilisation of telemedicine amid the current COVID-19 pandemic and to evaluate the benefits of continuing telemedicine usage in the future. A literature review was performed for articles related to telemedicine. Databases including PubMed, Google Scholar, Cochrane Library and Ovid MEDLINE were searched. Three reviewers independently performed article selection based on relevance to our topic. We included all articles between 1990 and 2020 related to telemedicine using the following keywords: 'telemedicine', 'telehealth', 'policy', 'COVID-19', 'regulation', 'rural', 'physical examination', 'future'. A total of 60 articles were identified, and through careful selection we narrowed the final number of articles to 42 based on relevance to our topic. Telemedicine has been rapidly evolving over the past several decades. Issues with regulation and reimbursement have prevented its full immersion into the healthcare system. During the current pandemic, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid services have expanded access to telemedicine services. The advantages of telemedicine moving forward include its cost-effectiveness, ability to extend access to specialty services and its potential to help mitigate the looming physician shortage. Disadvantages include lack of available technological resources in certain parts of the country, issues with security of patient data, and challenges in performing the traditional patient examination. It is critically important that changes are made to fully immerse telemedicine services into the healthcare landscape in order to be prepared for future pandemics as well as to reap the benefits of this service in the future.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility, acceptability and cost efficiency of using webinars to deliver first-line patient education for people with Irritable Bowel Syndrome as part of a dietetic-led gastroenterology service in primary care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder. International research suggests dietary intervention as a first-line approach, although dietetic services are struggling to cope with demand. Digital technology may offer a solution to deliver appropriate patient education. The present study aimed to assess the feasibility, acceptability and cost efficiency of using webinars to deliver first-line IBS advice to patients as part of a dietetic-led gastroenterology service in primary care.
METHODS: Patients were directed to an IBS First Line Advice webinar on a specialist NHS website. Data were collected from patients pre- and post-webinar use using an online survey.
RESULTS: In total, 1171 attendees completed the pre-webinar survey and 443 completed the post-webinar survey. Attendees ranged from under 17 years to over 75 years. Of the attendees, 95% found the webinar easy to access and 91% were satisfied with the content of the webinar. Those with excellent or good knowledge rose from 25% pre-webinar to 67% post-webinar, and confidence in managing their condition improved for 74% of attendees. Using the webinars led to a 44% reduction in referrals for one-to-one appointments with a specialist dietitian in the first year of use. The value of the clinical time saved is estimated at £3593 per annum. The one-off cost of creating the webinar was £3597.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of webinars is a feasible, acceptable and cost-efficient way of delivering first-line patient education to people suffering with Irritable Bowel Syndrome as part of a dietetic-led gastroenterology service in primary care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health benefits and economic advantages associated with increased utilization of a smoking cessation program.
Abstract: Rationale, aim & objective: The goal of this study was to examine the health and economic impacts related to increased utilization of the Duke Smoking Cessation Program resulting from the addition of two relatively new referral methods - Best Practice Advisory and Population Outreach. Materials & methods: In a companion paper 'Comparison of Referral Methods into a Smoking Cessation Program', we report results from a retrospective, observational, comparative effectiveness study comparing the impact of three referral methods - Traditional Referral, Best Practice Advisory and Population Outreach on utilization of the Duke Smoking Cessation Program. In this paper we take the next step in this comparative assessment by developing a Markov model to estimate the improvement in health and economic outcomes when two referral methods - Best Practice Advisory and Population Outreach - are added to Traditional Referral. Data used in this analysis were collected from Duke Primary Care and Disadvantaged Care clinics over a 1-year period (1 October 2017-30 September 2018). Results: The addition of two new referral methods - Best Practice Advisory and Population Outreach - to Traditional Referral increased the utilization of the Duke Smoking Cessation Program in Primary Care clinics from 129 to 329 smokers and in Disadvantaged Care clinics from 206 to 401 smokers. The addition of these referral methods was estimated to result in 967 life-years gained, 408 discounted quality-adjusted life-years saved and total discounted lifetime direct healthcare cost savings of US$46,376,285. Conclusion: Health systems may achieve increased patient health and decreased healthcare costs by adding Best Practice Advisory and Population Outreach strategies to refer patients to smoking cessation services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile X-ray outside the hospital: a scoping review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: For several years mobile X-ray equipment has been routinely used for imaging in patients too unwell within the hospital, when transportation to the radiology department was inadvisable. Now, mobile X-ray examinations are also used outside the hospital. The literature describes that fragile patients may benefit from mobile X-ray, but we need to provide insights into the breadth, depth and gaps in a body of literature.
METHODS: The scoping review was performed by searching PubMed, Cinahl, Embase, EconLit and Health Technology Assessment. English-, Danish-, Norwegian-, German-, Italian-, French- and Swedish-language studies, published 1.1.2009-1.5.2020 about mobile X-ray outside the hospital were included. Participants were patients examined using mobile X-ray as the intervention. PRISMA was used when eligible to build up the review. To extract data from the selected articles, we used a structured summary table.
RESULTS: We included 12 studies in this scoping review. The results were divided into four topics:1. Target population 2. Population health 3. Experience of care and 4. Cost effectiveness. The main findings are that target population could be larger for instance including hospice patients for palliative care, group dwelling for people with intellectual disabilities, or psychiatric patients, population health may be improved, image quality seems to be good and mobile X-ray may be cost effective. Limitations of language, databases and grey literature may have resulted in studies being missed.
CONCLUSIONS: Mobile X-ray may be used outside hospital. There seems to be potential benefits to both patients and health care staff. Based on the published studies it is not possible to draw a final conclusion if mobile X-ray examination is a relevant diagnostic offer and for whom. Further studies are needed to assess the feasibility of use in fragile patients, also regarding staff, relatives and societal consequences and therefore the topic mobile X-ray needs more research.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Health App (AGRIPPA) to Prevent Relapse After Successful Interdisciplinary Treatment for Patients With Chronic Pain: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: To facilitate adherence to adaptive pain management behaviors after interdisciplinary multimodal pain treatment, we developed a mobile health app (AGRIPPA app) that contains two behavior regulation strategies.
OBJECTIVE: The aims of this project are (1) to test the effectiveness of the AGRIPPA app on pain disability; (2) to determine the cost-effectiveness; and (3) to explore the levels of engagement and usability of app users.
METHODS: We will perform a multicenter randomized controlled trial with two parallel groups. Within the 12-month inclusion period, we plan to recruit 158 adult patients with chronic pain during the initial stage of their interdisciplinary treatment program in one of the 6 participating centers. Participants will be randomly assigned to the standard treatment condition or to the enhanced treatment condition in which they will receive the AGRIPPA app. Patients will be monitored from the start of the treatment program until 12 months posttreatment. In our primary analysis, we will evaluate the difference over time of pain-related disability between the two conditions. Other outcome measures will include health-related quality of life, illness perceptions, pain self-efficacy, app system usage data, productivity loss, and health care expenses.
RESULTS: The study was approved by the local Medical Research Ethics Committee in October 2019. As of March 20, 2020, we have recruited 88 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This study will be the first step in systematically evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of the AGRIPPA app. After 3 years of development and feasibility testing, this formal evaluation will help determine to what extent the app will influence the maintenance of treatment gains over time. The outcomes of this trial will guide future decisions regarding uptake in clinical practice.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register NL8076; https://www.trialregister.nl/trial/8076.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/18632.
Label Included: 0

Title: Employee and Employer Benefits From a Migraine Management Program: Disease Outcomes and Cost Analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of a migraine management program offered as a complimentary service by a company within its corporate well-being program.
BACKGROUND: Migraine imposes a substantial burden on patients, families, employers, and societies. As migraine primarily affects working-age adults, this has important implications for both employees and employers. Workplace educational and well-being programs positively contribute to employees' productivity, reduce costs related to absenteeism, and improve the quality of life of the employees living with migraine.
METHODS: This was a non-interventional cohort study, which followed employees and their family members over time. Participants received 1 telemedicine consultation to determine migraine diagnosis or a high probability of having migraine and 6 sessions of individualized telecoaching from a specialized nurse via a specially developed smartphone application to optimize their migraine management leveraging all appropriate medical and lifestyle options. Participants were evaluated during the program and at 3 months after completion through a series of validated questionnaires including Migraine Disability Assessment (MIDAS), Patient Activation Measure (PAM), and satisfaction with the services offered. A cost analysis was also performed to determine the economic benefit of the program considering the number of completers, dropouts, their associated program costs, MIDAS data, average salary of a Swiss employee in the pharma sector, and working days per year.
RESULTS: Of the 141 participants enrolled in the program, 79 completed 6-month and 42 completed 9-month assessments. The total MIDAS scores (mean, standard deviation [SD]) significantly improved from baseline by 54% at Month 6 (15.0 [13.6] vs 6.9 [8.2]; mean [SD] reduction: 8.1 [12.9], 95% confidence interval [CI]: 5.6-10.6; P < .0001) and by 64% at Month 9 (15.4 [14.7] vs 5.6 [6.0]; mean [SD] reduction: 9.8 [14.0], 95% CI: 6.6-13.0; P < .0001). The PAM scores also significantly improved from baseline by 8% at Month 6 (63.8 [10.9] vs 69.6 [12.8]; mean [SD] increase: 5.8 [12.8], 95% CI: 3.2-8.4; P = .003) and 11% at Month 9 (63.5 [10.7] vs 71.3 [12.2]; mean [SD] increase: 7.8 [11.0], 95% CI: 4.3-11.2; P = .003). At Month 6, common coaching lessons and respective action plans focused on progressive muscle relaxation, sleep, hydration, nutrition, general disease education, and stress management. The exit survey showed that the majority of the participants who completed the program had a meaningful and sustained improvement in their overall health and reported a high level of satisfaction with the program. The cost analysis revealed that on average participants gained 10.8 (95% CI: 9.3-12.3) working days/year that were previously lost due to migraine, resulting in a positive return on investment (ROI) of 490% (95% CI: 410%-570%), indicating a higher magnitude of savings that could be achieved by the implementation of such program. In addition to ROI and work productivity gained, participants also gained on average 13.6 (95% CI: 9.9-17.3) migraine-free days/year for their private and social life.
CONCLUSION: The employer-sponsored disease management program provided a better understanding of migraine, promoted methods and approaches to improve management by combining medical and lifestyle options leading to significant improvements in migraine symptoms that sustained beyond the intervention, supporting prolonged effectiveness of such programs. The program also provided a high ROI to the employer, supporting that the systematic inclusion of such programs into corporate well-being initiatives can be of significant benefit not only to the impacted individuals but to the employers as well.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Development and Validation of a Machine Learning Model to Predict Bacteremia and Fungemia in Hospitalized Patients Using Electronic Health Record Data.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Bacteremia and fungemia can cause life-threatening illness with high mortality rates, which increase with delays in antimicrobial therapy. The objective of this study is to develop machine learning models to predict blood culture results at the time of the blood culture order using routine data in the electronic health record.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of a large, multicenter inpatient data.
SETTING: Two academic tertiary medical centers between the years 2007 and 2018.
SUBJECTS: All hospitalized patients who received a blood culture during hospitalization.
INTERVENTIONS: The dataset was partitioned temporally into development and validation cohorts: the logistic regression and gradient boosting machine models were trained on the earliest 80% of hospital admissions and validated on the most recent 20%.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There were 252,569 blood culture days-defined as nonoverlapping 24-hour periods in which one or more blood cultures were ordered. In the validation cohort, there were 50,514 blood culture days, with 3,762 cases of bacteremia (7.5%) and 370 cases of fungemia (0.7%). The gradient boosting machine model for bacteremia had significantly higher area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (0.78 [95% CI 0.77-0.78]) than the logistic regression model (0.73 [0.72-0.74]) (p < 0.001). The model identified a high-risk group with over 30 times the occurrence rate of bacteremia in the low-risk group (27.4% vs 0.9%; p < 0.001). Using the low-risk cut-off, the model identifies bacteremia with 98.7% sensitivity. The gradient boosting machine model for fungemia had high discrimination (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve 0.88 [95% CI 0.86-0.90]). The high-risk fungemia group had 252 fungemic cultures compared with one fungemic culture in the low-risk group (5.0% vs 0.02%; p < 0.001). Further, the high-risk group had a mortality rate 60 times higher than the low-risk group (28.2% vs 0.4%; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our novel models identified patients at low and high-risk for bacteremia and fungemia using routinely collected electronic health record data. Further research is needed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness and impact of model implementation in clinical practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in the OECD: An umbrella review of clinical and cost-effectiveness, patient experience and implementation.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Patients and policy makers alike have high expectations for the use of digital technologies as tools to improve health care service quality at a sustainable cost. Many countries within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) are investing in telemedicine initiatives, and a large and growing body of peer-reviewed studies on the topic has developed, as a consequence. Nonetheless, telemedicine is still not used at scale within the OECD. Seeking to provide a snapshot of the evidence on the use of telemedicine in the OECD, this umbrella review of systematic reviews summarizes findings on four areas of policy relevance: clinical and cost-effectiveness, patient experience, and implementation.
METHODS: This review followed a prior written, unregistered protocol. Four databases (PubMed/Medline, CRD, and Cochrane Library) were searched for systematic reviews or meta-analyses published between January 2014 and February 2019. Based on the inclusion criteria, 98 systematic reviews were selected for analysis. Due to substantial heterogeneity, a meta-analysis was not conducted. The quality of included reviews was assessed using the AMSTAR 2 tool.
RESULTS: Most reviews (n = 53) focused on effectiveness, followed by cost-effectiveness (n = 18), implementation (n = 17) and patient experience (n = 15). Eighty-three percent of clinical effectiveness reviews found telemedicine at least as effective as face-to-face care, and thirty-nine percent of cost-effectivenss reviews found telemedicine to be cost saving or cost-effective. Patients reported high acceptance of telemedicine and the most common barriers to implementation were usability and lack of reimbursement. However, the methodological quality of most reviews was low to critically low which limits generalizability and applicability of findings.
CONCLUSION: This umbrella review finds that telemedicine interventions can improve glycemic control in diabetic patients; reduce mortality and hospitalization due to chronic heart failure; help patients manage pain and increase their physical activity; improve mental health, diet quality and nutrition; and reduce exacerbations associated with respiratory diseases like asthma. In certain disease and specialty areas, telemedicine may be a less effective way to deliver care. While there is evidence that telemedicine can be cost-effective, generalizability is hindered by poor quality and reporting standards. This umbrella review also finds that patients report high levels of acceptance and satisfaction with telemedicine interventions, but that important barriers to wider use remain.
Label Included: 0

Title: Addressing the challenges of implementing a Health Technology Assessment Policy Framework in South Africa.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: South Africa's commitment to progressively achieve universal health coverage can lead to the effective and appropriate use of Health Technology Assessment (HTA) to strengthen the healthcare system. The study aimed to analyze the challenges faced in the formal implementation and utilization of HTA in the public health sector.
METHODS: Review and analysis of health technology policies and legislation introduced in South Africa since 1965 serves as the backbone of this study. Walt and Gilson's health policy triangle framework and Kingdon's model were used for data analysis. In addition, a semi-structured survey was conducted among key stakeholders, including those attending HTA workshops that were held in 2016 and 2017.
RESULTS: The document review identified appropriate legislative and policy framework for informing healthcare decisions. Survey participants (n = 55) reported limited political support, local capacity, and awareness of HTA as barriers to implementing HTA. They noted that adequate financial resources and availability and sharing of quality data are primary drivers for HTA development. Effective governance, collaboration, and cooperation between key stakeholders of the healthcare system were suggested as possible ways forward for the institutionalization of HTA.
CONCLUSION: The South African government's goal to introduce the national health insurance program provides an excellent opportunity to formally introduce the use of HTA in decision making. Individual capacity development supported by institutional and organizational environments is urgently needed to achieve its full potential.
Label Included: 0

Title: Suboptimal prescribing behaviour associated with clinical software design features: a retrospective cohort study in English NHS primary care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Electronic health record (EHR) systems are used by clinicians to record patients' medical information, and support clinical activities such as prescribing. In England, healthcare professionals are advised to 'prescribe generically' because generic drugs are usually cheaper than branded alternatives, and have fixed reimbursement costs. 'Ghost-branded generics' are a new category of medicines savings, caused by prescribers specifying a manufacturer for a generic product, often resulting in a higher reimbursement price compared with the true generic.
AIM: To describe time trends and practice factors associated with excess medication costs from ghost-branded generic prescribing.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Retrospective cohort study of English GP prescribing data and EHR deployment data.
METHOD: A retrospective cohort study was conducted, based on data from the OpenPrescribing.net database from May 2013 to May 2019. Total spending on ghost-branded generics across England was calculated, and excess spend on ghost-branded generics calculated as a percentage of all spending on generics for every CCG and general practice in England, for every month in the study period.
RESULTS: There were 31.8 million ghost-branded generic items and £9.5 million excess cost in 2018, compared with 7.45 million ghost-branded generic items and £1.3 million excess cost in 2014. Most excess costs were associated with one EHR, SystmOne, and it was identified that SystmOne offered ghost-branded generic options as the default. After informing the vendor, the authors monitored for subsequent change in costs, and report a rapid decrease in ghost-branded generic expenditure.
CONCLUSION: A design choice in a commonly used EHR has led to £9.5 million in avoidable excess prescribing costs for the NHS in 1 year. Notifying the vendor led to a change in user interface and a rapid, substantial spend reduction. This finding illustrates that EHR user interface design has a substantial impact on the quality, safety, and cost-effectiveness of clinical practice; this should be a priority for quantitative research.
Label Included: 0

Title: Willingness to pay for a telemedicine-delivered healthy lifestyle programme.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Effective weight-management interventions require frequent interactions with specialised multidisciplinary teams of medical, nutritional and behavioural experts to enact behavioural change. However, barriers that exist in rural areas, such as transportation and a lack of specialised services, can prevent patients from receiving quality care.
METHODS: We recruited patients from the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Weight & Wellness Center into a single-arm, non-randomised study of a remotely delivered 16-week evidence-based healthy lifestyle programme. Every 4 weeks, participants completed surveys that included their willingness to pay for services like those experienced in the intervention. A two-item Willingness-to-Pay survey was administered to participants asking about their willingness to trade their face-to-face visits for videoconference visits based on commute and copay.
RESULTS: Overall, those with a travel duration of 31-45 min had a greater willingness to trade in-person visits for telehealth than any other group. Participants who had a travel duration less than 15 min, 16-30 min and 46-60 min experienced a positive trend in willingness to have telehealth visits until Week 8, where there was a general negative trend in willingness to trade in-person visits for virtual. Participants believed that telemedicine was useful and helpful.
CONCLUSIONS: In rural areas where patients travel 30-45 min a telemedicine-delivered, intensive weight-loss intervention may be a well-received and cost-effective way for both patients and the clinical care team to connect.
Label Included: 0

Title: Simultaneous circulation of COVID-19 and flu in Italy: Potential combined effects on the risk of death?
Abstract: Based on data updated to 20 May 2020, the total recorded number of patients who died due to COVID-19-related reasons in Italy was 31,851. Demographic and clinical characteristics of patients who have died (including the number of comorbidities) are extremely relevant, especially to define those with a higher risk of mortality. Health authorities recommend influenza (flu) vaccinations in a number of categories at risk of serious medical complications, including: people aged ≥65 years, or patients with diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), renal failure, cancer, immunodeficiencies, chronic hepatopathies, and chronic inflammatory bowel diseases. The seasonal flu peak certainly preceded that of the pandemic; however, it would seem clear that the two viruses have been simultaneously circulating in Italy for a while. Hence, after the peak of seasonal flu, influenza-like illness-related (ILI) deaths started to grow again. While some of the excess mortality reported in the ILI group may be attributable to COVID-19, a question arises: do we have to consider this observation as a result of a random sequence of events or a potential relationship between the two viruses play a role? A cooperation mechanism intended at establishing an absolute advantage over the host could also be assumed; this system often takes place to boost the reproductive probabilities. A characterization of those who died due to virus-related reasons can be performed by cross-linking data (stored in different warehouses) from the same geographical area and developing electronic health records. It would be of great relevance to identify people at very high risk of mortality as a result of an overlapping or combination of risk factors that were separately reported in patients who died from COVID-19 or influenza. A description of the subgroup of people at higher risk of mortality will be crucial for prioritizing and implementing future public health prevention and treatment programs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Exploring the costs, consequences and efficiency of three types of palliative care day services in the UK: a pragmatic before-and-after descriptive cohort study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Palliative Care Day Services (PCDS) offer supportive care to people with advanced, progressive illness who may be approaching the end of life. Despite the growth of PCDS in recent years, evidence of their costs and effects is scarce. It is important to establish the value of such services so that health and care decision-makers can make evidence-based resource allocation decisions. This study examines and estimates the costs and effects of PCDS with different service configurations in three centres across the UK in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
METHODS: People who had been referred to PCDS were recruited between June 2017 and September 2018. A pragmatic before-and-after descriptive cohort study design analysed data on costs and outcomes. Data on costs were collected on health and care use in the 4 weeks preceding PCDS attendance using adapted versions of the Client Service Receipt Inventory (CSRI). Outcomes, cost per attendee/day and volunteer contribution to PCDS were also estimated. Outcomes included quality of life (MQOL-E), health status (EQ-5D-5L) and capability wellbeing (ICECAP-SCM).
RESULTS: Thirty-eight attendees were recruited and provided data at baseline and 4 weeks (centre 1: n = 8; centre 2: n = 8, centre 3: n = 22). The cost per attendee/day ranged from £121-£190 (excluding volunteer contribution) to £172-£264 (including volunteer contribution) across the three sites. Volunteering constituted between 28 and 38% of the total cost of PCDS provision. There was no significant mean change at 4 week follow-up from baseline for health and care costs (centre 1: £570, centre 2: -£1127, centre 3: £65), or outcomes: MQOL-E (centre 1: - 0.48, centre 2: 0.01, centre 3: 0.24); EQ-5D-5L (centre 1: 0.05, centre 2: 0.03, centre 3: - 0.03) and ICECAP-SCM (centre 1:0.00, centre 2: - 0.01, centre 3: 0.03). Centre costs variation is almost double per attendee when attendance rates are held constant in scenario analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the contribution made by volunteers to PCDS provision. There is insufficient evidence on whether outcomes improved, or costs were reduced, in the three different service configurations for PCDS. We suggest how future research may overcome some of the challenges we encountered, to better address questions of cost-effectiveness in PCDS.
Label Included: 0

Title: Raising the Digital Profile of Facial Palsy: National Surveys of Patients' and Clinicians' Experiences of Changing UK Treatment Pathways and Views on the Future Role of Digital Technology.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Facial nerve palsy leaves people unable to move muscles on the affected side of their face. Challenges exist in patients accessing facial neuromuscular retraining (NMR), a therapy used to strengthen muscle and improve nerve function. Access to therapy could potentially be improved through the use of digital technology. However, there is limited research available on patients' and clinicians' views about the potential benefits of such telerehabilitation based on their lived experiences of treatment pathways.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to gather information about facial palsy treatment pathways in the United Kingdom, barriers to accessing NMR, factors influencing patient adherence, measures used to monitor recovery, and the potential value of emerging wearable digital technology.
METHODS: Separate surveys of patients with facial palsy and facial therapy specialists were conducted. Questionnaires explored treatment pathways and views on telerehabilitation, were co-designed with users, and followed a similar format to enable cross-referencing of responses. A follow-up survey of national specialists investigated methods used to monitor recovery in greater detail. Analysis of quantitative data was conducted allowing for data distribution. Open-text responses were analyzed using thematic content analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 216 patients with facial palsy and 25 specialist therapists completed the national surveys. Significant variations were observed in individual treatment pathways. Patients reported an average of 3.27 (SD 1.60) different treatments provided by various specialists, but multidisciplinary team reviews were rare. For patients diagnosed most recently, there was evidence of more rapid initial prescribing of corticosteroids (prednisolone) and earlier referral for NMR therapy. Barriers to NMR referral included difficulties accessing funding, shortage of specialist therapists, and limited awareness of NMR among general practitioners. Patients traveled long distances to reach an NMR specialist center; 9% (8/93) of adults reported traveling ≥115 miles. The thematic content analysis demonstrates positive attitudes to the introduction of digital technology, with similar incentives and barriers identified by both patients and clinicians. The follow-up survey of 28 specialists uncovered variations in the measures currently used to monitor recovery and no agreed definitions of a clinically significant change for any of these. The main barriers to NMR adherence identified by patients and therapists could all be addressed by using suitable real-time digital technology.
CONCLUSIONS: The study findings provide valuable information on facial palsy treatment pathways and views on the future introduction of digital technology. Possible ways in which emerging sensor-based digital technology can improve rehabilitation and provide more rigorous evidence on effectiveness are described. It is suggested that one legacy of the COVID-19 pandemic will be lower organizational barriers to this introduction of digital technology to assist NMR delivery, especially if cost-effectiveness can be demonstrated.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in orthopaedics during COVID-19 and beyond: A systematic review.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Telemedicine is the delivery of healthcare across a distance using some form of communication technology. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased adoption of telemedicine with national orthopaedic governing bodies advocating its use, as evidence suggests that social distancing maybe necessary until 2022. This systematic review aims to explore evidence for telemedicine in orthopaedics to determine its advantages, validity, effectiveness and utilisation.
METHODS: Databases of PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus and CINAHL were systematically searched and articles were included if they involved any form of telephone or video consultation in an orthopaedic population. Findings were synthesised into four themes: patient/clinician satisfaction, accuracy and validity of examination, safety and patient outcomes and cost effectiveness. Quality assessment was undertaken using Cochrane and Joanna Briggs Institute appraisal tools.
RESULTS: Twenty-one studies were included consisting of nine randomised controlled trials (RCTs). Studies revealed high patient satisfaction with telemedicine for convenience, less waiting and travelling time. Telemedicine was cost effective particularly if patients had to travel long distances, required hospital transport or time off work. No clinically significant differences were found in patient examination nor measurement of patient-reported outcome measures. Telemedicine was reported to be a safe method of consultation.
DISCUSSION: Evidence suggests that telemedicine in orthopaedics can be safe, cost effective, valid in clinical assessment and with high patient/clinician satisfaction. However, more high-quality RCTs are required to elucidate long-term outcomes. This systematic review presents up-to-date evidence on the use of telemedicine and provides data for organisations considering its use during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementation of a Centralized, Cost-effective Call Center in a Large Urology Community Practice.
Abstract: Call centers provide front-line care and service to patients. This study compared call-answering efficiency and costs between the implementation of an internal, centralized call center (January to July 2019) and previously outsourced call-center services (January to July 2018) for a large urology community practice. Retrospective review of call metrics and cost data was performed. Internal call-center leadership, training, and culture was examined through survey of staff and management. A total of 299,028 calls with an average of 5751 calls per week were answered during the study periods. The Average Speed of Answer (ASA) was 1:42 (min:s) for the outsourced call center and 0:14 for the internal call center (P < 0.001), with 70% of outsourced calls answered under 2 minutes compared with 99% of calls for the internal call center (P < 0.001). The Average Handle Time (AHT) for each outsourced call was 5:32 versus 3:41 for the internal call center (P < 0.001). The total operating expenses were 7.7% lower for the internal call center. Surveys revealed the importance of engaged leadership and staff training with feedback, simplified work algorithms, and expanded clinical roles. We found that internal, centralized call centers may provide a call-answering solution with greater efficiency and lower total operating expense versus an outsourced call center for large surgical practices. A culture that emphasizes continuous improvement and empowers call-center staff with expanded clinical roles may ultimately enhance patient communication and service.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine and Orthopaedic Surgery: The COVID-19 Pandemic and Our New Normal.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Technology-enabled activation of skin cancer screening for hematopoietic cell transplantation survivors and their primary care providers (TEACH).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) is a curative option for a growing number of patients with hematologic diseases and malignancies. However, HCT-related factors, such as total body irradiation used for conditioning, graft-versus-host disease, and prolonged exposure to immunosuppressive therapy, result in very high risk for melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC). In fact, skin cancer is the most common subsequent neoplasm in HCT survivors, tending to develop at a time when survivors' follow-up care has largely transitioned to the primary care setting. The goal of this study is to increase skin cancer screening rates among HCT survivors through patient-directed activation alone or in combination with physician-directed activation. The proposed intervention will identify facilitators of and barriers to risk-based screening in this population and help reduce the burden of cancer-related morbidity after HCT.
METHODS/DESIGN: 720 HCT survivors will be enrolled in this 12-month randomized controlled trial. This study uses a comparative effectiveness design comparing (1) patient activation and education (PAE, N = 360) including text messaging and print materials to encourage and motivate skin examinations; (2) PAE plus primary care physician activation (PAE + Phys, N = 360) adding print materials for the physician on the HCT survivors' increased risk of skin cancer and importance of conducting a full-body skin exam. Patients on the PAE + Phys arm will be further randomized 1:1 to the teledermoscopy (PAE + Phys+TD) adding physician receipt of a portable dermatoscope to upload images of suspect lesions for review by the study dermatologist and an online course with descriptions of dermoscopic images for skin cancers.
DISCUSSION: When completed, this study will provide much-needed information regarding strategies to improve skin cancer detection in other high-risk (e.g. radiation-exposed) cancer survivor populations, and to facilitate screening and management of other late effects (e.g. cardiovascular, endocrine) in HCT survivors.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT04358276 . Registered 24 April 2020.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation and costs of telepsychiatry programmes: A systematic review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Telepsychiatry involves use of telecommunications technology to deliver psychiatric care and offers promise to reduce costs and increase access to mental health services. This systematic review examined cost reporting of telepsychiatry programmes for mental healthcare.
METHODS: We systematically searched electronic databases for studies reporting costs, including economic evaluations such as cost-effectiveness analyses, or costs of developing telepsychiatry programmes for clinical care of mental disorders. Included studies enrolled participants with mental disorders and involved telepsychiatry for depression, anxiety disorders, serious mental illnesses including schizophrenia spectrum disorders and bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, dementia or epilepsy.
RESULTS: Twenty-six unique studies met inclusion criteria (17,967 participants), with most targeting depression (n = 7; 27%), general mental disorders and screening (n = 7; 27%), child mental health (n = 4; 15%) and geriatric mental health (n = 4; 15%). Nearly all studies (n = 25; 96%) compared telepsychiatry programme costs with either standard in-person consultation or usual care, with 15 (60%) reporting that telepsychiatry programmes were less expensive, and 8 (32%) showing telepsychiatry programmes were more expensive. Three studies reported cost-effectiveness analyses, favouring telepsychiatry programmes, but at highly elevated cost-effectiveness thresholds. Few studies reported costs of developing or delivering telepsychiatry programmes.
CONCLUSION: Costs of telepsychiatry programmes varied widely, with substantial heterogeneity in how costs were defined and reported. Some programmes cost less than in-person services while others cost more. Therefore, rigorous cost-effectiveness studies following established standards in economic evaluation are needed to inform implementation and sustainability of these programmes in health systems.
Label Included: 0

Title: Applications of e-Health to Support Person-Centered Health Care at the Time of COVID-19 Pandemic.
Abstract: Background: Many e-health services were launched after countries relaxed their telehealth regulations to combat the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. e-Health technologies that support person-centered health care are crucial for the patient's needs. In this systematic review, we examined how e-health applications are used to support person-centered health care at the time of COVID-19. Methodology: Literature was systematically searched without language restriction and publication status between January 1 and May 25, 2020, to describe e-health's support on the person-centered health care to control the COVID-19 pandemic. PubMed, ScienceDirect, and CINAHL, MedRxiv, and Web of Science were used. Two researchers independently assessed the eligibility of each retrieved record. All included studies were subsequently rescreened by the researchers. The systematic review was conducted in accordance with preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses guidelines. Results: We identified 60 articles and selected 8 studies that met the inclusion criteria. Most of the studies used e-health technologies to facilitate clinical decision support and team care. Patient's engagement and access to health care from their homes were enhanced using telehealth and mobile health. Electronic health records were used to avail reliable data to health care providers and health authorities to make evidence-based decisions. Conclusion: Although there are limited studies to evaluate the effectiveness of e-health technologies for person-centered health care, the reviewed studies indicated e-health's potentials to improve the quality of health care and personalized health systems during COVID-19 pandemic. Further research should be done to better understand applications of e-health to improve the quality of health care and patients' outcomes and evaluate its cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Current Trends in Nursing Research Across Five Locations: The United States, South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and Hong Kong.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Despite the importance of research in the discipline of nursing, current trends in nursing research have rarely been discussed across countries. The purpose of this article was to identify current trends in nursing research across five countries, including the United States, South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and Hong Kong, in order to provide directions for future global nursing research.
ORGANIZING CONSTRUCT: A discussion article.
METHODS: To identify the current trends, seven leaders from the five countries had discussions through a series of workshops and conference presentations. After the most recent conference, all the leaders reflected for a month on their presentations and compiled the exemplars and cases from their experience and the existing literature in individual countries into a table. The tables and supporting references were collected at the completion of the reflection period. Then, the PowerPoint (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, WA, USA) slideshows of the conference presentations by the leaders and the collected tables were analyzed using a content analysis.
FINDINGS: Six themes reflecting the current trends in nursing research were extracted: (a) demographic alterations; (b) increasing diversities and globalization; (c) technology innovation; (d) individualized or personal care and population health initiatives; (e) health policies and regulations; and (f) nursing workforce changes.
CONCLUSIONS: Future directions for nursing research across the countries were proposed: (a) cost-effectiveness research; (b) implementation science; (c) data science; (d) training of the future generation of nurse researchers; (e) population health; and (f) team science.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This topic could be applied to any clinical settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Artificial intelligence for diabetic retinopathy screening, prediction and management.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Diabetic retinopathy is the most common specific complication of diabetes mellitus. Traditional care for patients with diabetes and diabetic retinopathy is fragmented, uncoordinated and delivered in a piecemeal nature, often in the most expensive and high-resource tertiary settings. Transformative new models incorporating digital technology are needed to address these gaps in clinical care.
RECENT FINDINGS: Artificial intelligence and telehealth may improve access, financial sustainability and coverage of diabetic retinopathy screening programs. They enable risk stratifying patients based on individual risk of vision-threatening diabetic retinopathy including diabetic macular edema (DME), and predicting which patients with DME best respond to antivascular endothelial growth factor therapy.
SUMMARY: Progress in artificial intelligence and tele-ophthalmology for diabetic retinopathy screening, including artificial intelligence applications in 'real-world settings' and cost-effectiveness studies are summarized. Furthermore, the initial research on the use of artificial intelligence models for diabetic retinopathy risk stratification and management of DME are outlined along with potential future directions. Finally, the need for artificial intelligence adoption within ophthalmology in response to coronavirus disease 2019 is discussed. Digital health solutions such as artificial intelligence and telehealth can facilitate the integration of community, primary and specialist eye care services, optimize the flow of patients within healthcare networks, and improve the efficiency of diabetic retinopathy management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Big Data in Ophthalmology.
Abstract: Big data is the fuel of mankind's fourth industrial revolution. Coupled with new technology such as artificial intelligence and deep learning, the potential of big data is poised to be harnessed to its maximal in years to come. In ophthalmology, given the data-intensive nature of this specialty, big data will similarly play an important role. Electronic medical records, administrative and health insurance databases, mega national biobanks, crowd source data from mobile applications and social media, and international epidemiology consortia are emerging forms of "big data" in ophthalmology. In this review, we discuss the characteristics of big data, its potential applications in ophthalmology, and the challenges in leveraging and using these data. Importantly, in the next phase of work, it will be pertinent to further translate "big data" findings into real-world applications, to improve quality of eye care, and cost-effectiveness and efficiency of health services in ophthalmology.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic impact and cost savings of teledermatology units compared to conventional monitoring at hospitals in southern Spain.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Asynchronous teledermatology (TD) has undergone exponential growth in the past decade, allowing better diagnosis. Moreover, it saves both cost and time and reduces the number of visits involving travel and opportunity cost of time spent on visits to the hospital. The present study performed a cost-saving analysis of TD units and assessed whether they offered a cheaper alternative to conventional monitoring (CM) in hospitals from the perspective of public health-care systems (PHS) and patients.
METHODS: This study was a retrospective assessment of 7030 patients. A cost-saving analysis comparing TD units to CM for patients at the Hospital de Poniente was performed over a period of one year. The TD network covered the Hospital de Poniente reference area (Spain) linked to 37 primary care (PC) centres that belonged to the Poniente Health District of Almeria.
RESULTS: We observed a significant cost saving for TD units compared to participants in the conventional follow-up group. From the perspective of a PHS, there was a cost saving of 31.68% in the TD group (€18.59 TD vs. €27.20 CM) during the follow-up period. The number of CM visits to the hospital reduced by 38.14%. From the patients' perspective, the costs were lower, and the cost saving was 73.53% (€5.45 TD vs. €20.58 CM).
DISCUSSION: The cost-saving analysis showed that the TD units appeared to be significantly cheaper compared to CM.
Label Included: 0

Title: Changing the Health Behavior of Patients With Cardiovascular Disease Through an Electronic Health Intervention in Three Different Countries: Cost-Effectiveness Study in the Do Cardiac Health: Advanced New Generation Ecosystem (Do CHANGE) 2 Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: During the last few decades, preventing the development of cardiovascular disease has become a mainstay for reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. It has been suggested that interventions should focus more on committed approaches of self-care, such as electronic health techniques.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to provide evidence to understand the financial consequences of implementing the "Do Cardiac Health: Advanced New Generation Ecosystem" (Do CHANGE 2) intervention, which was evaluated in a multisite randomized controlled trial to change the health behavior of patients with cardiovascular disease.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness analysis of the Do CHANGE 2 intervention was performed with the Monitoring and Assessment Framework for the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing tool, based on a Markov model of five health states. The following two types of costs were considered for both study groups: (1) health care costs (ie, costs associated with the time spent by health care professionals on service provision, including consultations, and associated unplanned hospitalizations, etc) and (2) societal costs (ie, costs attributed to the time spent by patients and informal caregivers on care activities).
RESULTS: The Do CHANGE 2 intervention was less costly in Spain (incremental cost was -€2514.90) and more costly in the Netherlands and Taiwan (incremental costs were €1373.59 and €1062.54, respectively). Compared with treatment as usual, the effectiveness of the Do CHANGE 2 program in terms of an increase in quality-adjusted life-year gains was slightly higher in the Netherlands and lower in Spain and Taiwan.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, we found that the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio strongly varied depending on the country where the intervention was applied. The Do CHANGE 2 intervention showed a positive cost-effectiveness ratio only when implemented in Spain, indicating that it saved financial costs in relation to the effect of the intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03178305; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03178305.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of an Electronic Health Service on Child Participation in Pediatric Oncology Care: Quasiexperimental Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: For children 6-12 years old, there is a shortage of electronic Health (eHealth) services that promote their participation in health care. Therefore, a digital communication tool, called Sisom, was developed to give children a voice in their health care. Children with long-term diseases want to be more involved in their health care and have the right to receive information, be listened to, express their opinions, and participate in decision making in health care. However, the outcomes of using Sisom in practice at pediatric oncology clinics have not been investigated.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate children's participation during appointments with pediatricians at pediatric oncology clinics, with or without the use of the eHealth service Sisom.
METHODS: A quasiexperimental design with mixed methods was used. We analyzed 27 filmed appointments with pediatricians for 14 children (8 girls and 6 boys) aged 6-12 years (mean 8.3 years) with a cancer diagnosis. The intervention group consisted of children who used Sisom prior to their appointments with pediatricians at a pediatric oncology clinic, and the control group consisted of children who had appointments with pediatricians at 4 pediatric oncology clinics. Data from observations from the videos were quantitatively and qualitatively analyzed. The quantitative analysis included manual calculations of how many times the pediatricians spoke directly to the children, the proportion of the appointment time that the children were talking, and levels of participation by the children. For the qualitative analysis, we used directed content analysis to analyze the children's levels of participation guided by a framework based on Shier's model of participation.
RESULTS: Pediatricians directed a greater proportion of their discussion toward the child in the intervention group (731 occasions) than in the control group (624 occasions), but the proportion of the appointment time the children talked was almost the same for both the intervention and control groups (mean 17.0 minutes vs 17.6 minutes). The levels of participation corresponded to the first three levels of Shier's participation model: children were listened to, children were supported to express their views, and children's views were taken into account. The results showed an increased level of participation by the children in the intervention group. Several codes that were found did not fit into any of the existing categories, and a new category was thus formed: children received information.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that the eHealth service Sisom can increase children's participation during appointments with health care professionals. Further studies employing a randomized control design focusing on the effects of eHealth services on children's health outcomes, perceived participation, and cost-effectiveness could make a significant contribution to guiding the implementation of eHealth services in pediatric care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Analysis of Robotic Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass in a Single Academic Center: How Expensive Is Expensive?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although the use of da Vinci robotic platforms in bariatric surgery is gaining momentum, it is still controversial because of financial concerns.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of our study is to evaluate the cost of robotically assisted Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (R-RYGB) versus conventional laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (L-RYGB).
METHODS: We analyzed consecutive primary bariatric patients who underwent R-RYGB and compared them with patients who underwent L-RYGB during the same time period. Primary outcomes were overall cost for length of stay, operating time, and supplies. Direct cost data was generated using the StrataJazz reporting module, which is fed daily from EPIC, our electronic health record system, and contains hospital-based data only. Secondary outcomes were 30-day rates of complications, reoperations, and readmissions.
RESULTS: We found no difference in primary or secondary outcomes following R-RYGB and L-RYGB. The overall cost for R-RYGB and L-RYGB was not statistically different (median total cost for R-RYGB and L-RYBG was $6431.34 and $6349.09, P > 0.05, respectively). Operating time cost was significantly higher for R-RYGB compared with L-RYGB ($2248.51 versus $19,836.29, respectively, P < 0.0001, respectively). R-RYGB had lower cost of supplies as well as a shorter length of stay compared with L-RYGB (mean 1.5 versus 1.7 days, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed no cost difference between R-RYGB and L-RYGB, with a decreased cost of supplies and trend toward lower hospital stay favoring R-RYGB. Further studies are needed to evaluate the outcomes of R-RYGB compared with L-RYGB; however, the cost of robotic surgery may not be a prohibitive factor.
Label Included: 0

Title: Exploring the Determinants and Experiences of Senior Stroke Patients with Virtual Care.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The study sought to explore the experiences of participants affected by stroke with home video visit (HVV) for follow-up visits in order to understand the determinants, barriers, and benefits associated with HVVs.
METHODS: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with (n = 23) participants to gather insight and descriptive information about patients' experiences with HVV. Specifically, we sought to collect descriptions about the (1) costs and time associated with in-person visits, (2) facilitators and barriers to in-person and virtual visits, and (3) their values attached to traditional and virtual forms of patient care.
RESULTS: HVVs were perceived to be a mode of healthcare that is time-saving and convenient for both participants and physicians. However, our study also found some participants felt uncomfortable using technology to conduct medical visits while others still supported a positive view of traditional forms of in-person visits because they valued the in-person interactions and safe environment of the hospital.
CONCLUSION: While HVVs were considered to be useful in addressing geographical barriers to health care, technological and digital health literacy may serve to impede seniors from using the service, with some of them opting to go to the hospital despite geographical barriers. Resultantly, HVVs may serve both to alleviate and exacerbate certain determinants to health care.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Cost-Effectiveness of Mobile Health (mHealth) Interventions for Older Adults: Systematic Review.
Abstract: The objective of this study was to critically assess and review empirical evidence on the cost-effectiveness of Mobile Health (mHealth) interventions for older adults. We systematically searched databases such as Pubmed, Scopus, and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Literature (CINAHL) for peer-reviewed economic evaluations published in English from 2007 to 2018. We extracted data on methods and empirical evidence (costs, effects, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio) and assessed if this evidence supported the reported findings in terms of cost-effectiveness. The consolidated health economic evaluation reporting standards (CHEERS) checklist was used to assess the reporting quality of the included studies. Eleven studies were identified and categorized into two groups: complex smartphone communication and simple text-based communication. Substantial heterogeneity among the studies in terms of methodological approaches and types of intervention was observed. The cost-effectiveness of complex smartphone communication interventions cannot be judged due to lack of information. Limited evidence of cost-effectiveness was found for interventions related to simple text-based communications. Comprehensive economic evaluation studies are warranted to assess the cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions designed for older adults.
Label Included: 0

Title: An interactive website for informed contraception choice: randomised evaluation of Contraception Choices.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Improving use of effective contraception to prevent unintended pregnancy is a global priority, but misperceptions and concerns about contraception are common. Our objective was to evaluate an interactive website to aid informed choice of contraception.
METHODS: The Contraception Choices website is an interactive digital intervention which offers tailored advice to aid contraception decision-making (www.contraceptionchoices.org). In a parallel single-blind trial, we randomised 927 women aged 15-30 years from six clinic settings to access the intervention website (n = 464) or to a waiting-list control group (n = 463). The study was initially a feasibility trial, evolving into an evaluation of efficacy, with two primary outcomes at six months: long-acting reversible contraception (LARC) use, and satisfaction with contraceptive method. Secondary outcomes included self-reported pregnancy and sexually transmitted infection diagnoses. Free-text comments on the 3 and 6 month outcome surveys were analysed thematically.
FINDINGS: There was no significant difference between intervention and control groups in the proportion of women using LARC [30.4% intervention versus 31.0% control; adjusted odds ratio 0.87 (95% confidence interval 0.60 to 1.28)]; satisfaction with contraceptive method [82.6% versus 82.1%; adjusted ordinal odds ratio 0.93 (95% CI 0.69 to 1.25)]; self-reported pregnancy [3.3% versus 4.1%; adjusted odds ratio 0.90 (95% CI 0.45 to 1.79)] nor sexually transmitted infection [5.3% versus 4.7%; adjusted odds ratio 0.72 (95% CI 0.55 to 2.36)]. Highly positive free-text comments from intervention participants indicated that the website facilitates contraception choice and can help women feel better prepared before consultation with healthcare providers.
INTERPRETATION: The Contraception Choices website was popular for its design, trustworthy information and decision aids but it was not associated with significant differences in use of LARC or satisfaction with contraceptive method. An interactive website can aid contraception choice, but interventions that address factors beyond women's control, such as access to services, and partner, family or community influences are needed to complement this approach.
RESEARCH IN CONTEXT: Preventing unintended pregnancy through effective use of contraception is essential for women's health, but choosing between different contraceptive methods can be challenging, and the opportunity for adequate discussion during routine consultations is often constrained.
EVIDENCE BEFORE THIS STUDY: We conducted two systematic literature reviews: 1) Factors influencing contraception choice, uptake and use: a meta-synthesis of systematic reviews; and 2) Effectiveness of interactive digital interventions (IDI) for contraception choice, uptake and use. For the first review we searched PubMed, CDSR, Epistemonikos, DoPHER, DARE, NHS Economic Evaluation Database, Campbell Library, NIHR Health Technology Assessment, and Health Evidence Canada databases for systematic reviews which addressed contraceptive choice, uptake or use, from 2000 to 2017. PROSPERO registration number: CRD42017081521 https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/display_record.php?RecordID=81521. We synthesised the findings of 18 systematic reviews of mostly moderate or high quality. They highlighted the importance of women's knowledge, beliefs, perceptions of side effects and health risks, as well as relationship status, social network, economic and healthcare factors on contraception choice and use. For the second review, we searched 23 electronic databases, trials registers and reference lists for randomised controlled trials of IDI for contraception, including CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, ERIC, ASSIA and PsycINFO, from start date to June 2017. PROSPERO registration number: CRD42017081636. We found only five randomised trials of IDI, all from the USA. Risk of bias prevented synthesis of results. www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/display_record.php?RecordID=81636.
ADDED VALUE OF THIS STUDY: Women's common concerns about contraception - fear of hormones, weight gain, cancer, infertility, mood changes, breaks from contraception and changes in bleeding patterns - underpinned development of a new interactive website (www.contraceptionchoices.org). Contraception Choices addresses women's concerns through succinct text; Q and A format (Frequently Asked Questions, Did you Know?; videos of women and health professionals); an effectiveness infographic, and an interactive decision aid (What's right for me?).In an online randomised trial with 927 women attending clinics, we found no association of the Contraception Choices intervention with the primary outcomes - satisfaction with contraceptive method and uptake of long-acting reversible methods at 6 months. Nor did we find an association with secondary adverse outcomes - sexually transmitted infections or pregnancy. Comments from women indicated that the website can meet young women's need for information on the benefits and drawbacks of contraception, help them to make informed decisions, and feel better prepared before healthcare consultations. Contraception Choices is now available on the NHS website: www.nhs.uk/conditions/contraception/which-method-suits-me.
IMPLICATIONS OF ALL THE AVAILABLE EVIDENCE: Interactive digital interventions (websites) can aid contraception choice, but other intervention research is needed to address wider influences on unintended pregnancy, including partner views, friends, family, the media, wider society and experiences with healthcare professionals. Future research could examine the impact of the website in different settings, e.g. schools or different countries. We hypothesise that use of the website during contraceptive consultations might improve the efficiency or quality of consultation, for both patients and healthcare providers. Appropriate methodology and time-scale for evaluating digital health interventions remains a key question.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Pilot Study and Ecological Model of Smoking Cues to Inform Mobile Health Strategies for Quitting Among Low-Income Smokers.
Abstract: One crucial factor that leads to disparities in smoking cessation between groups with higher and lower socioeconomic status is more prevalent socioenvironmental smoking cues in low-income communities. Little is known about how these cues influence socioeconomically disadvantaged smokers in real-world scenarios and how to design interventions, especially mobile phone-based interventions, to counteract the impacts of various types of smoking cues. We interviewed 15 current smokers living in low-income communities and scanned their neighborhoods to explore smoking-related experiences and identify multilevel cues that may trigger them to smoke. Findings suggest four major types of smoking cues influence low-income smokers-internal, habitual, social, and environmental. We propose an ecological model of smoking cues to inform the design of mobile health (mHealth) interventions for smoking cessation. We suggest that user-triggered strategies will be most useful to address internal cues; server-triggered strategies will be most suitable in changing perceived social norms of smoking and routine smoking activities to address social and habitual cues; and context-triggered strategies will be most effective for counteracting environmental cues. The pros and cons of each approach are discussed regarding their cost-effectiveness, the potential to provide personalized assistance, and scale.
Label Included: 0

Title: Smartphone-Based Fundus Imaging-Where Are We Now?
Abstract: With the advent of smartphone-based fundus imaging (SBFI), a low-cost alternative to conventional digital fundus photography has become available. SBFI allows for a mobile fundus examination, is applicable both with and without pupil dilation, comes with built-in connectivity and post-processing capabilities, and is relatively easy to master. Furthermore, it is delegable to paramedical staff/technicians and, hence, suitable for telemedicine. Against this background a variety of SBFI applications have become available including screening for diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, and retinopathy of prematurity and its applications in emergency medicine and pediatrics. In addition, SBFI is convenient for teaching purposes and might serve as a surrogate for direct ophthalmoscopy. First wide-field montage techniques are available and the combination of SBFI with machine learning algorithms for image analyses is promising. In conclusion, SBFI has the potential to make fundus examinations and screenings for patients particularly in low- and middle-income settings more accessible and, therefore, aid tackling the burden of diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, and retinopathy of prematurity screening. However, image quality for SBFI varies substantially and a reference standard for grading appears prudent. In addition, there is a strong need for comparison of different SBFI approaches in terms of applicability to disease screening and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Person-centred care by a combined digital platform and structured telephone support for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and/or chronic heart failure: study protocol for the PROTECT randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A core feature of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) and chronic heart failure (CHF) is that symptoms may change rapidly because of illness progression. Thus, these chronic conditions are associated with high rehospitalisation rates. Person-centred care (PCC) has been shown to have several benefits for patients with COPD or CHF (or both disorders) but it has not yet been investigated through e-health services.
AIM: The project aims to evaluate the effects of PCC by a combined digital platform and structured telephone support for people with COPD and/or CHF.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A randomised controlled trial with open, parallel groups which employs a participatory design process will be used. This project will also include process and health economic evaluation of the intervention.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval has been secured from the Regional Ethical Review Board in Gothenburg, Sweden (Dnr 063-17 and T063-18). Results will be presented at conferences and to healthcare professionals, participants and patient organisations. Findings will also be submitted for publication in peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03183817.
Label Included: 0

Title: The evaluation of comprehensive medication management for chronic diseases in primary care clinics, a Texas delivery system reform incentive payment program.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Institute of Medicine reported that more than 1.5 million preventable adverse drug events occur annually in the United States. Comprehensive Medication Management (CMM) is the medication review process to improve clinical outcomes, enhance patient adherence, reduce drug therapy problems and reduce health care costs. University of Texas (UT) Physicians implemented a CMM program in several community-based clinics. We evaluated the effectiveness of CMM to reduce drug therapy problems and achieve medical cost savings.
METHODS: This was a retrospective, observational study of CMM participants from October 2015 to September 2016. Program participants included patients aged 18 years or older who had taken more than 4 prescribed medications and were diagnosed with at least one of the following chronic diseases: hypertension, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma or diabetes. Under the CMM program, a clinical pharmacist reviewed patients' electronic health records and created action plans to resolve identified drug problems. As part of the evaluation of the clinical process, two independent physicians conducted peer review on the recommendations issued by the pharmacist in order to establish inter-rater reliability of drug therapy problems and potential consequent medical services. The drug therapy problems were identified and classified into four categories: indication, effectiveness, safety and/or compliance. The average cost of avoided medical services was obtained based on cost extrapolations from the literature, combined with hospital discharge data. Potential medical services avoided were linked to the average cost of those services to calculate the total cost savings of the program from the payers' perspective.
RESULTS: By reviewing electronic health records of 3280 patients, the pharmacist identified 301 drug therapy problems and resolved 49.8% of these problems with collaboration from the patient's primary care physician or care team. The most commonly identified drug problems were related to potentially adverse drug reactions or inappropriate drug dosage. The CMM program resulted in potential cost savings of $1,143,015.
CONCLUSIONS: The CMM program resolved medication therapy problems among program participants and achieved significant health care cost savings.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Indicators in teledermatology: A literature review].
Abstract: AIM: Over the last two decades teledermatology has become one of the most widely used applications in telemedicine. Wide-ranging medico-economic evaluations are necessary to facilitate its deployment. "Accurate and measurable" indicators must be defined in order to enable high-quality assessments to be performed. The objective of this study is to identify all indicators allowing evaluation of teledermatology procedures and to assess the relevance and results thereof.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A literature search until September 2017 was conducted in PubMed using the following MeSH search terms: "telemedicine", "dermatology" and "quality improvement".
RESULTS: The search identified 372 articles, of which 127 were included. Fourteen indicators were identified and split into 4 categories: processes indicators, quality indicators, cost indicators and satisfaction indicators. Reliability of diagnosis was the most widely evaluated indicator (49 studies). It was good overall compared to conventional consultations. Costs were generally reduced. Due to the absence of a validated measuring tool, it was difficult to compare the results for certain indicators, particularly satisfaction, and thus to make any generalizations.
CONCLUSION: Teledermatology is a promising tool. Its deployment must be adapted to the various needs in the field and achievement of this goal requires consultation with patients and with the different healthcare professionals involved. Its evaluation must also be specific to each terrain and must employ standardized measuring instruments.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Lung Screening: Should We All Get on the Bus?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite favorable recommendations, national lung screening adoption remains low (2% to 3%). Patients living in rural areas have additional challenges, including access to lung screening programs. We initiated a mobile lung screening program to serve the rural patients at risk. This is what we learned from this 12-month feasibility project.
METHODS: Utilizing a multidisciplinary approach, we began an 8-month design and build schedule. This was the first build of this type. The operational team included a radiology technician, nurse practitioner, driver with a commercial driver's license, and program developer. Specialized software was used for data mining. Downstream revenue projections were based on previously published Medicare claims data. Generally accepted accounting principles were used.
RESULTS: The prototype bus was delivered January 2018. During the 12-month feasibility period, we performed 548 low-dose lung screenings at 104 sites. Mean patient age was 62 years, mean pack-years of smoking was 41; 258 (47%) were male. Five lung cancers were found in addition to a type B thymoma. Financially, we exceeded the break-even analysis by 28%. The 5-year pro forma using 1 year of actual data and 4 additional years of projected data demonstrated a net present value of 1 million, internal rate of return of 34.6%, and profitability index of 2.2-all highly dependent on downstream revenue.
CONCLUSIONS: Although challenges exist, a commercially viable bus and a financially sound mobile program can be developed. However, without a centralized approach for incidental findings, the downstream revenue may be at risk as well as the financial viability of the project.
Label Included: 0

Title: A trauma medical home, evaluating collaborative care for the older injured patient: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: It is estimated that 55 million adults will be 65 years and older in the USA by 2020. These older adults are at increased risk for injury and their recovery is multi-faceted. A collaborative care model may improve psychological and functional outcomes of the non-neurologically impaired older trauma patient and reduce health care costs.
METHODS: This is a randomized controlled trial of 430 patients aged 50 and older who have suffered a non-neurologic injury and are admitted to a level one trauma center in Indianapolis, IN, or Madison, WI. Participants will be assigned to either the Trauma Medical Home (TMH) intervention or usual care. The TMH intervention is a collaborative care model that includes validated protocols addressing the multi-faceted needs of this population, with the help of care coordination software and a mobile office concept. The primary outcome is self-reported physical recovery at 6- and 12-month follow-up. Secondary outcomes include self-reported psychological recovery, acute health care utilization, and cost-effectiveness of the intervention at 6 and 12 months. The TMH collaborative care model will be delivered by a registered nurse care coordinator. The assessments will be completed by trained blinded research assistants.
DISCUSSION: The proposed study will evaluate a collaborative care model to help maximize psychological and functional recovery for non-neurologically injured older patients at four level one trauma centers in the Midwest.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials. NCT03108820 . Registered on 11 April 2017. Protocol Version 6: Study # 1612690852. April 12, 2019.
SPONSOR: Indiana University. Human subjects and IRB contact information: irb@iu.edu Prospectively registered in the WHO ICTRP on 4 June 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: eTest: a limited-interaction, longitudinal randomized controlled trial of a mobile health platform that enables real-time phone counseling after HIV self-testing among high-risk men who have sex with men.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: HIV disproportionately affects men who have sex with men (MSM) in the USA, and new infections continue to increase, particularly among African American (AA) and Hispanic/Latino (H/L) MSM. Rates of HIV testing are particularly low among AA and H/L MSM, and innovative approaches to encourage testing may help address high incidence in these men. HIV self-testing (HST) may be an important tool for increasing rates and frequency of testing. HST may be particularly well-suited for AA and H/L MSM, given that stigma and mistrust of medical care contribute to low testing rates. Despite its promise, however, many are concerned that HST does not sufficiently connect users with critical post-testing resources, such as confirmatory testing and care among those who test positive, and that these limitations may result in delayed linkage to care.
METHODS: We developed a mobile health platform (eTest) that monitors when HST users open their tests in real time, allowing us to provide timely, "active" follow-up counseling and referral over the phone. In this study, 900 high-risk MSM (with targets of 40% AA, 35% H/L) who have not tested in the last year will be recruited from social media and other gay-oriented websites in several major cities. Over 12 months, participants will be randomly assigned to receive (1) HST with post-test phone counseling and referral (eTest condition), (2) HST without active follow-up (standard condition), or (3) reminders to get tested for HIV at a local clinic (control) every 3 months. Primary outcomes include rates of HIV testing, receipt of additional HIV prevention services, and PrEP initiation verified by clinical medical records.
DISCUSSION: This study tests whether providing more active counseling and referral after HST encourages more regular HIV testing and engagement with other prevention services among MSM, compared to more passive approaches or clinic-based testing alone. It will also explore the cost-effectiveness and emotional/behavioral effects of these two strategies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT03654690 . Registered on 31 August 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility of a Mobile Health App for Routine Outcome Monitoring and Feedback in Mutual Support Groups Coordinated by SMART Recovery Australia: Protocol for a Pilot Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite the importance and popularity of mutual support groups, there have been no systematic attempts to implement and evaluate routine outcome monitoring (ROM) in these settings. Unlike other mutual support groups for addiction, trained facilitators lead all Self-Management and Recovery Training (SMART Recovery) groups, thereby providing an opportunity to implement ROM as a routine component of SMART Recovery groups.
OBJECTIVE: This study protocol aims to describe a stage 1 pilot study designed to explore the feasibility and acceptability of a novel, purpose-built mobile health (mHealth) ROM and feedback app (Smart Track) in SMART Recovery groups coordinated by SMART Recovery Australia (SRAU) The secondary objectives are to describe Smart Track usage patterns, explore psychometric properties of the ROM items (ie, internal reliability and convergent and divergent validity), and provide preliminary evidence for participant reported outcomes (such as alcohol and other drug use, self-reported recovery, and mental health).
METHODS: Participants (n=100) from the SMART Recovery groups across New South Wales, Australia, will be recruited to a nonrandomized, prospective, single-arm trial of the Smart Track app. There are 4 modes of data collection: (1) ROM data collected from group participants via the Smart Track app, (2) data analytics summarizing user interactions with Smart Track, (3) quantitative interview and survey data of group participants (baseline, 2-week follow-up, and 2-month follow-up), and (4) qualitative interviews with group participants (n=20) and facilitators (n=10). Feasibility and acceptability (primary objectives) will be analyzed using descriptive statistics, a cost analysis, and a qualitative evaluation.
RESULTS: At the time of submission, 13 sites (25 groups per week) had agreed to be involved. Funding was awarded on August 14, 2017, and ethics approval was granted on April 26, 2018 (HREC/18/WGONG/34; 2018/099). Enrollment is due to commence in July 2019. Data collection is due to be finalized in October 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to use ROM and tailored feedback within a mutual support group setting for addictive behaviors. Our study design will provide an opportunity to identify the acceptability of a novel mHealth ROM and feedback app within this setting and provide detailed information on what factors promote or hinder ROM usage within this context. This project aims to offer a new tool, should Smart Track prove feasible and acceptable, that service providers, policy makers, and researchers could use in the future to understand the impact of SMART Recovery groups.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR): ACTRN12619000686101; https://anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=377336.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): PRR1-10.2196/15113.
Label Included: 0

Title: Exclusively Digital Health Interventions Targeting Diet, Physical Activity, and Weight Gain in Pregnant Women: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Interventions to promote a healthy diet, physical activity, and weight management during pregnancy are increasingly embracing digital technologies. Although some interventions have combined digital with interpersonal (face-to-face or telephone) delivery, others have relied exclusively on digital delivery. Exclusively digital interventions have the advantages of greater cost-effectiveness and broader reach and as such can be a valuable resource for health care providers.
OBJECTIVE: This systematic review aims to focus on exclusively digital interventions to determine their effectiveness, identify behavior change techniques (BCTs), and investigate user engagement.
METHODS: A total of 6 databases (Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System Online [MEDLINE], Excerpta Medica dataBASE [EMBASE], PsycINFO, Cumulated Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature [CINAHL] Plus, Web of Science, and ProQuest) were searched for randomized controlled trials or pilot control trials of exclusively digital interventions to encourage healthy eating, physical activity, or appropriate weight gain during pregnancy. The outcome measures were gestational weight gain (GWG) and changes in physical activity and dietary behaviors. Study quality was assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool 2.0. Where possible, pooled effect sizes were calculated using a random effects meta-analysis.
RESULTS: In total, 11 studies met the inclusion criteria. The risk of bias was mostly high (n=5) or moderate (n=3). Of the 11 studies, 6 reported on GWG as the primary outcome, 4 of which also measured changes in physical activity and dietary behaviors, and 5 studies focused either on dietary behaviors only (n=2) or physical activity only (n=3). The meta-analyses showed no significant benefit of interventions on total GWG for either intention-to-treat data (-0.28 kg; 95% CI -1.43 to 0.87) or per-protocol data (-0.65 kg; 95% CI -1.98 to 0.67). Substantial heterogeneity in outcome measures of change in dietary behaviors and physical activity precluded further meta-analyses. BCT coding identified 7 BCTs that were common to all effective interventions. Effective interventions averaged over twice as many BCTs from the goals and planning, and feedback and monitoring domains as ineffective interventions. Data from the 6 studies reporting on user engagement indicated a positive association between high engagement with key BCTs and greater intervention effectiveness. Interventions using proactive messaging and feedback appeared to have higher levels of engagement.
CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to interpersonal interventions, there is little evidence of the effectiveness of exclusively digital interventions to encourage a healthy diet, physical activity, or weight management during pregnancy. In this review, effective interventions used proactive messaging, such as reminders to engage in BCTs, feedback on progress, or tips, suggesting that interactivity may drive engagement and lead to greater effectiveness. Given the benefits of cost and reach of digital interventions, further research is needed to understand how to use advancing technologies to enhance user engagement and improve effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical Safety and Cost-Effectiveness of Follow-up Virtual Clinic for Bladder Outflow Obstruction Surgery.
Abstract: Introduction: Bladder outflow obstruction (BOO) surgery is among the most commonly performed urologic procedures. Postoperative assessment consists of physical measurement of uroflowmetry and post-void residual volume, but health systems worldwide have experienced pressures in demand, leading to exploration of greater efficiency in organizing clinic protocols. International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) questionnaire measurement has been identified as a tool to predict change in postoperative management. Our institution established a nurse-led follow-up virtual clinic (VC) for patients undergoing BOO surgery based on IPSS measurement. We present the clinical and economic outcomes of this new service. Materials and Methods: Patients with a successful postoperative trial without catheter were contacted by telephone via VC and discharged by a Urology Clinical Nurse Specialist (UCNS) if IPSS was <8. Data were analyzed for IPSS, arrangement of subsequent clinic visits, and numbers discharged. Primary outcome was the proportion of patients discharged after VC consultation. Secondary outcomes were overall discharge rate following subsequent face-to-face (FTF) appointment; and the proportion of patients re-referred from Primary Care within 3 months of discharge from VC. Cost savings were calculated based on tariffs of £135 for first attendance with UCNS, £199 for uroflowmetry, and £47.84 for VC appointment. Results: The first 50 patients to be recipients of the new VC were included. The median IPSS and quality-of-life score were 13 (interquartile range [IQR] 5) and 3 (IQR 1), respectively. Thirty-nine (78%) patients were discharged from VC; 36 (72%) had IPSS <8. Overall discharge rate following subsequent FTF appointment was 88%. Two patients discharged from VC (5.1%) were subsequently re-referred, neither of whom required additional treatment. Total cost savings with VC amounted to £10,634. Conclusion: Telephone follow-up for BOO surgery based on IPSS is clinically safe and cost-effective, providing greater efficiency for clinic protocols.
Label Included: 0

Title: Does Advanced Imaging Have a Role in Detecting Local Recurrence of Soft-tissue Sarcoma?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Early detection of soft-tissue sarcoma recurrences may decrease the morbidity of reoperation and improve oncologic outcomes. The benefit of imaging compared with clinical surveillance for detecting local recurrences remains controversial, as prior studies have varied in terms of inclusion criteria, factors analyzed, and outcomes reported.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: (1) What proportion of local recurrences were detected by surveillance imaging compared with clinical signs and symptoms? (2) Were local recurrences detected by imaging smaller than those detected by clinical surveillance? (3) Were relevant tumor, patient, or operative characteristics associated with clinically occult local recurrence?
METHODS: Over a 20-year period ending in 2018, we treated 545 patients for soft-tissue sarcoma. During that period, we recommended that patients receive a surgical excision as well as radiation therapy based on current clinical guidelines. Of those we treated, 9% (51 of 545) were excluded for having a low-grade liposarcoma, and 4% (21 of 545) were excluded for being metastatic at the time of presentation. Of the remaining patients, 22% (107 of 473) were lost to follow-up before 2 years but were not known to have died. There were a remaining 366 patients for analysis in this retrospective study of electronic medical records from a single center. Patients routinely underwent advanced imaging and clinical follow-up at intervals based on currently available guidelines for sarcoma surveillance. We recommended that patients with high-grade sarcomas be followed every 3 months until 2 years, then every 6 months until 3 years, then annually thereafter. In contrast, we recommended that patients with low-grade sarcomas be followed every 6 months until 2 years, then annually thereafter. In addition, patients were encouraged to return for evaluation if they noted a new mass or other symptoms. In general, patients with high-grade sarcomas received postoperative radiation therapy unless they underwent amputation, while intermediate- and low-grade sarcomas were radiated according to clinical concern for local recurrence, as determined by the multidisciplinary sarcoma team. Seventeen percent (61 of 366) of patients developed or presented with a local recurrence. Of the local recurrences detected by surveillance imaging, 17 were detected by MRI, three were detected by position emission tomography, and one was detected by CT scan. The proportion of local recurrences first identified by advanced imaging versus clinical detection (physical examination, self-detection, or symptomatic presentation) were compared. Logistic regression with a Wald chi-square test was performed to evaluate if tumor, patient, or operative characteristics are associated with clinical versus imaging detection of local recurrences.
RESULTS: A higher proportion of local recurrences were detected by clinical signs and symptoms than by routine imaging (66% (40 of 61) versus 34% (21 of 61), binomial proportion 0.66 [95% CI 0.55 to 0.77]; p = 0.007). With the numbers available, there was no difference in the tumor size detected by clinical signs and symptoms compared with surveillance imaging. The median (interquartile range) largest tumor dimension was 3.9 cm (2.5 to 7.8) for clinical surveillance versus 4.5 cm (2.7 to 6.2) for imaging surveillance (p = 0.98). We were unable to identify any associated factors, alone or in combination, with detection by physical exam, including patient age, tumor size, tumor depth, tumor location, operative closure type, or radiation status. Characteristics such as larger tumors, more superficial tumors, low BMI, the absence of a flap reconstruction or radiation treatment, were not associated with a greater likelihood of detection by physical examination.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that although a high proportion of local recurrences were detected by clinical signs and symptoms, approximately one-third were detected by imaging. Although not all patients may benefit equally from routine imaging, we were unable to identify any patient, tumor, or operative characteristics to define a subgroup of patients that are more or less likely benefit from this surveillance technique. These findings support current surveillance guidelines that recommend the use of advanced imaging; however, other factors may also warrant consideration. Futher insight could be gained by studying surveillance imaging in terms of optimal frequency, cost-effectiveness, and psychosocial implications for patients.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, diagnostic study.
Label Included: 0

Title: Social Support is Key to Retention in Care during Covid-19 Pandemic among Older People with HIV and Substance Use Disorders in Ukraine.
Abstract: Older people with human immunodeficiency virus - HIV (OPWH) defined as ≥50 years old account for a growing proportion of newly diagnosed infections in Ukraine (16% in 2018), but the prevalence of substance use disorder among OPWH in Ukraine remains unknown. Ukraine responded to the Covid-19 pandemic with a comprehensive lockdown in late March 2020. Objectives: We conducted a phone survey among 123 OPWH with substance use disorders (SUD) in Kyiv in May 2020 to learn if these older adults may continue HIV and SUD therapy while coping with the Covid-19 pandemic. Results: Data from the survey demonstrated that while OPWH with SUD maintained HIV and SUD therapy throughout Covid-19 lockdown, social support is critical to avoiding treatment interruption for OPWH with SUD. Conclusions/Importance: During reopening, reduction of support may lead to OPWH feeling even more isolated. Post-Covid-19 pharmacological approaches to SUD treatment without social support are like vehicles without gas. The research agenda for OPWH patients with SUD going forward must include determining the type of telehealth support that will be optimally effective to retain OPWH including people who inject drugs (PWID), provision of support by lay health workers, and cost-effectiveness of such interventions. The lessons learned may be relevant to other countries as well.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Need to Develop Standard Measures of Patient Adherence for Big Data: Viewpoint.
Abstract: Despite half a century of dedicated studies, medication adherence remains far from perfect, with many patients not taking their medications as prescribed. The magnitude of this problem is rising, jeopardizing the effectiveness of evidence-based therapies. An important reason for this is the unprecedented demographic change at the beginning of the 21st century. Aging leads to multimorbidity and complex therapeutic regimens that create a fertile ground for nonadherence. As this scenario is a global problem, it needs a worldwide answer. Could this answer be provided, given the new opportunities created by the digitization of health care? Daily, health-related information is being collected in electronic health records, pharmacy dispensing databases, health insurance systems, and national health system records. These big data repositories offer a unique chance to study adherence both retrospectively and prospectively at the population level, as well as its related factors. In order to make full use of this opportunity, there is a need to develop standardized measures of adherence, which can be applied globally to big data and will inform scientific research, clinical practice, and public health. These standardized measures may also enable a better understanding of the relationship between adherence and clinical outcomes, and allow for fair benchmarking of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of adherence-targeting interventions. Unfortunately, despite this obvious need, such standards are still lacking. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to call for a consensus on global standards for measuring adherence with big data. More specifically, sound standards of formatting and analyzing big data are needed in order to assess, uniformly present, and compare patterns of medication adherence across studies. Wide use of these standards may improve adherence and make health care systems more effective and sustainable.
Label Included: 0

Title: Online Antenatal Care During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Opportunities and Challenges.
Abstract: People across the world have been greatly affected by the ongoing coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. The high infection risk of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in hospitals is particularly problematic for recently delivered mothers and currently pregnant women who require professional antenatal care. Online antenatal care would be a preferable alternative for these women since it can provide pregnancy-related information and remote clinic consultations. In addition, online antenatal care may help to provide relatively economical medical services and diminish health care inequality due to its convenience and cost-effectiveness, especially in developing countries or regions. However, some pregnant women will doubt the reliability of such online information. Therefore, it is important to ensure the quality and safety of online services and establish a stable, mutual trust between the pregnant women, the obstetric care providers and the technology vis-a-vis the online programs. Here, we report how the COVID-19 pandemic brings not only opportunities for the development and popularization of online antenatal care programs but also challenges.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-utility of an eHealth application 'Oncokompas' that supports cancer survivors in self-management: results of a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: PURPOSE: The eHealth self-management application 'Oncokompas' was developed to support cancer survivors in monitoring health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and symptoms, and obtaining personalized feedback and options for supportive care. The aim of this study was to assess the cost-utility of Oncokompas compared with care as usual (CAU) among cancer survivors.
METHODS: Survivors were randomly allocated to the intervention or control group. Direct (non-)medical, indirect non-medical costs, and HRQOL were measured at 3- and 6-month follow-up, using iMTA Medical Consumption and Productivity Costs and the EuroQol-5D questionnaires. Mean cumulative costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were compared between both groups.
RESULTS: In total, 625 survivors were randomized into intervention (n = 320) or control group (n = 305). Base case analysis showed that incremental costs from a societal perspective were - €163 (95% CI, - 665 to 326), and incremental QALYs were 0.0017 (95% CI, - 0.0121 to 0.0155) in the intervention group compared with those in the control group. The probability that, compared with CAU, Oncokompas is more effective was 60%, less costly 73%, and both more effective and less costly 47%. Sensitivity analyses showed that incremental costs vary between - €40 and €69, and incremental QALYs vary between - 0.0023 and - 0.0057.
CONCLUSION: Oncokompas is likely to be equally effective on utilities, and not more expensive than CAU, and will therefore contribute to sustainable cancer survivorship care in a (cost-)effective manner.
IMPLICATIONS FOR CANCER SURVIVORS: Oncokompas seems to improve HRQOL and reduces the burden of several tumour-specific symptoms, while costs from a societal perspective are similar to CAU.
Label Included: 0

Title: Design, Adoption, Implementation, Scalability, and Sustainability of Telehealth Programs.
Abstract: Telehealth and telemedicine services can be a solution for improving accessibility and reducing the cost of health care. Challenges remain in designing, implementing, and sustainably scaling telehealth solutions. Research is lacking on the health impacts and cost-effectiveness of telehealth; more data are needed in the evaluation of telehealth programs, adjusting for potential participant bias and extending the time frame of evaluating impact. In addition, rethinking and addressing the economic incentives and payment for telehealth services, as well as the medical-legal framework for provider competition across geographic regions (and jurisdictions), are needed for greater adoption of telehealth services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Toi Même, a Mobile Health Platform for Measuring Bipolar Illness Activity: Protocol for a Feasibility Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The diagnosis and management of bipolar disorder are limited by the absence of available biomarkers. Patients with bipolar disorder frequently present with mood instability even during remission, which is likely associated with the risk of relapse, impaired functioning, and suicidal behavior, indicating that the illness is active.
OBJECTIVE: This research protocol aimed to investigate the correlations between clinically rated mood symptoms and mood/behavioral data automatically collected using the Toi Même app in patients with bipolar disorder presenting with different mood episodes. This study also aimed to assess the feasibility of this app for self-monitoring subjective and objective mood/behavior parameters in those patients.
METHODS: This open-label, nonrandomized trial will enroll 93 (31 depressive, 31 euthymic, and 31 hypomanic) adults diagnosed with bipolar disorder type I/II (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th edition criteria) and owning an iPhone. Clinical evaluations will be performed by psychiatrists at the baseline and after 2 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, and 3 months during the follow-up. Rather than only accessing the daily mood symptoms, the Toi Même app also integrates ecological momentary assessments through 2 gamified tests to assess cognition speed (QUiCKBRAIN) and affective responses (PLAYiMOTIONS) in real-life contexts, continuously measures daily motor activities (eg, number of steps, distance) using the smartphone's motion sensors, and performs a comprehensive weekly assessment.
RESULTS: Recruitment began in April 2018 and the completion of the study is estimated to be in December 2021. As of April 2019, 25 participants were enrolled in the study. The first results are expected to be submitted for publication in 2020. This project has been funded by the Perception and Memory Unit of the Pasteur Institute (Paris) and it has received the final ethical/research approvals in April 2018 (ID-RCB: 2017-A02450-53).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results will add to the evidence of exploring other alternatives toward a more integrated approach in the management of bipolar disorder, including digital phenotyping, to develop an ethical and clinically meaningful framework for investigating, diagnosing, and treating individuals at risk of developing bipolar disorder or currently experiencing bipolar disorder. Further prospective studies on the validity of automatically generated smartphone data are needed for better understanding the longitudinal pattern of mood instability in bipolar disorder as well as to establish the reliability, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of such an app intervention for patients with bipolar disorder.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03508427; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03508427.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/18818.
Label Included: 0

Title: Does the use of personal electronic health records increase vaccine uptake? A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although Personal Electronic Health Records (PEHR) have been identified as innovative tools enabling the provision of patient-centered care and prevention, evidence on the impact of their use is scant. With PEHRs being more and more marketed as easily implementable and cost-effective instruments to provide people with direct control on their health, the question on whether their use might be associated with the priority to improve vaccine coverage arises.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review following the PRISMA guidelines to retrieve, quantitatively pool and critically appraise the effectiveness of PEHR access on vaccine uptake. Analysis on PEHR effectiveness were carried out for the following comparison strata: i) PEHR access vs no intervention (standard care, no access to PEHR), ii) PEHR access only vs access to PEHR with additional features (e.g. health education materials, active reminders).
RESULTS: Of 3114 identified citations, 8 studies were included, the majority published in the US and before 2015; 62% were randomized trials, the rest having an observational study design. Evidence suggests a moderate positive impact of PEHR access in increasing vaccine uptake, with data available for influenza and pneumococcal vaccines, diabetic patients and childhood immunization. Pooled data report the addition of digital communication features, i.e. the delivery of educational messages, reminders and availability of scheduling features might increase vaccine uptake, as compared to PEHR access alone. However, evidence is not conclusive.
CONCLUSION: While immunization programs are struggling to achieve optimal coverage targets, it seems the potential of PEHRSs supporting informed adherence to vaccines recommendations is neither fully exploited nor explored. Which factors mediate the association between PEHRs access and vaccine uptake? Which PEHRs' design and functional components can maximize their impact? On which target populations? Which PEHR models works better for high-risk populations? Our findings can only partially answer those questions and further experimental research is needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of the CareWell integrated care model for older patients with multimorbidity: a quasi-experimental controlled study in the Basque Country.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Older patients with multimorbidity have complex health and social care needs, associated with elevated use of health care resources. The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of CareWell integrated care model for older patients with multimorbidity in the Basque Country.
METHODS: The CareWell program for older patients with multimorbidity, based on the coordination between health providers, home-based care and patient empowerment, supported by information and communication technology tools. The program was deployed in four healthcare areas in the Basque Country. The control group was formed by two organizations in which the program had not been deployed and regular care procedures were applied. Participants, older patients (aged ≥65) with two or more chronic conditions (at least one being chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic heart failure, or diabetes mellitus), categorized as complex according to a risk stratification algorithm, were followed up to 12 months. The impact of the program on the use of health resources, clinical effectiveness, and satisfaction was evaluated using a mixed-method approach. Semi-structured interviews were performed to assess satisfaction with the newly deployed model and mixed regression models to measure the effect of the intervention throughout the follow-up period.
RESULTS: Two hundred patients were recruited (101 intervention and 99 control), mostly males (63%) with a mean age of 79 years and age-adjusted Charlson Comorbidity Index of 9.7 on average. Relevant differences between the groups were observed for all dimensions. In the intervention group, the number of hospitalizations and visits to emergency centers was reduced, and the number of primary care contacts increased. Clinical changes were also observed, such as a decrease in the body mass index and blood glucose levels. The satisfaction level was high for all stakeholders.
CONCLUSION: The implementation of CareWell integrated care model changed the profile of health resource utilization, strengthening the key role of primary care and reducing the number of emergency visits and hospitalizations. The satisfaction with this model of care was high.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03042039 . Registered 3 February 2017 - Retrospectively registered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in Orthopaedic Surgery: Challenges and Opportunities.
Abstract: Improvements in technology and a push toward value-based health care have poised the telemedicine industry for growth; however, despite the benefits of virtual care, widespread implementation had not occurred until the coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Powerful barriers have hindered the widespread adoption of telemedicine, including lack of awareness, implementation costs, inefficiencies introduced, difficulty performing physical examinations, overall lack of perceived benefit of virtual care, negative financial implications, concern for medicolegal liability, and regulatory restrictions. Some of these challenges have been addressed with temporary state and federal mandates in response to the COVID-19 pandemic; however, continued investment in systems and technology as well as refinement of regulations around telemedicine are needed to sustain widespread adoption by patients and providers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Response to "Banning Textured Implants Is a Rational Decision to Eliminate the Risk of Breast Implant-Associated Anaplastic Large-Cell Lymphoma (BIA-ALCL)".
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Short and long term impacts of COVID-19 on the pharmaceutical sector.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was characterized as a global pandemic by the WHO on March 11th, 2020. This pandemic had major effects on the health market, the pharmaceutical sector, and was associated with considerable impacts; which may appear in short and long-term time-horizon and need identification and appropriate planning to reduce their socio-economic burden.
OBJECTIVES: Current short communication study assessed pharmaceutical market crisis during the COVID-19 era; discussing short- and long-term impacts of the pandemic on the pharmaceutical sector.
RESULTS: Short-term impacts of COVID-19 pandemic includes demand changes, regulation revisions, research and development process changes and the shift towards tele-communication and tele-medicine. In addition, industry growth slow-down, approval delays, moving towards self-sufficiency in pharm-production supply chain and trend changes in consumption of health-market products along with ethical dilemma could be anticipated as long-term impacts of COVID-19 pandemic on pharmaceutical sector in both global and local levels.
CONCLUSION: The pandemic of COVID-19 poses considerable crisis on the health markets, including the pharmaceutical sector; and identification of these effects, may guide policy-makers towards more evidence-informed planning to overcome accompanying challenges. Graphical abstract .
Label Included: 0

Title: Healthcare Utilization and Costs of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus by Disease Severity in the United States.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To quantify healthcare utilization and costs by disease severity for patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in the United States.
METHODS: We conducted descriptive analyses of Humedica electronic health record (EHR) data from 2011 to 2015 (utilization analysis) and integrated Optum administrative claims/Humedica EHR data from 2012 to 2015 (cost analysis) for patients with SLE. All-cause utilization outcomes examined were hospitalizations, outpatient visits, emergency department (ED) visits, and prescription drug use. Analyses of costs stratified by disease severity were limited to patients enrolled in an Optum-participating health insurance plan for ≥ 1 year after the earliest observed SLE diagnosis date. Costs were converted to 2016 US dollars (US$).
RESULTS: Healthcare utilization was evaluated in 17,257 patients with SLE. Averaged over the 2011-2015 study period, 13.7% of patients had ≥ 1 hospitalization per year, 25.7% had ≥ 1 ED visit, and 94.4% had ≥ 1 outpatient visit. Utilization patterns were generally similar across each year studied. Annually, 88.0% of patients had ≥ 1 prescription, including 1.3% who used biologics. Biologic treatment doubled between 2011 (0.7%) and 2015 (1.4%). Cost analyses included 397 patients. From 2012 to 2015, patients with severe SLE had mean annual costs of $52,951, compared with $28,936 and $21,052 for patients with moderate and mild SLE, respectively. Patients with severe SLE had increased costs in all service categories: inpatient, ED, clinic/office visits, and pharmacy.
CONCLUSION: Patients from the US with SLE, especially individuals with moderate or severe disease, utilize significant healthcare resources and incur high medical costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costing Analysis of a Pilot Community Health Worker Program in Rural Nepal.
Abstract: Community health workers (CHWs) are essential to primary health care systems and are a cost-effective strategy to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Nepal is strongly committed to universal health coverage and the SDGs. In 2017, the Nepal Ministry of Health and Population partnered with the nongovernmental organization Nyaya Health Nepal to pilot a program aligned with the 2018 World Health Organization guidelines for CHWs. The program includes CHWs who: (1) receive regular financial compensation; (2) meet a minimum education level; (3) are well supervised; (4) are continuously trained; (5) are integrated into local primary health care systems; (6) use mobile health tools; (7) have consistent supply chain; (8) live in the communities they serve; and (9) provide service without point-of-care user fees. The pilot model has previously demonstrated improved institutional birth rate, antenatal care completion, and postpartum contraception utilization. Here, we performed a retrospective costing analysis from July 16, 2017 to July 15, 2018, in a catchment area population of 60,000. The average per capita annual cost is US$3.05 (range: US$1.94 to US$4.70 across 24 villages) of which 74% is personnel cost. Service delivery and administrative costs and per beneficiary costs for all services are also described. To address the current discourse among Nepali policy makers at the local and federal levels, we also present 3 alternative implementation scenarios that policy makers may consider. Given the Government of Nepal's commitment to increase health care spending (US$51.00 per capita) to 7.0% of the 2030 gross domestic product, paired with recent health care systems decentralization leading to expanded fiscal space in municipalities, this CHW program provides a feasible opportunity to make progress toward achieving universal health coverage and the health-related SDGs. This costing analysis offers insights and practical considerations for policy makers and locally elected officials for deploying a CHW cadre as a mechanism to achieve the SDG targets.
Label Included: 0

Title: PrositNG - A Machine Learning Supported Disease Model Generation Software.
Abstract: Decision models (DM), especially Markov Models, play an essential role in the economic evaluation of new medical interventions. The process of DM generation requires expert knowledge of the medical domain and is a time-consuming task. Therefore, the authors propose a new model generation software PrositNG that is connectable to database systems of real-world routine care data. The structure of the model is derived from the entries in a database system by the help of Machine Learning algorithms. The software was implemented with the programming language Java. Two data sources were successfully utilized to demonstrate the value of PrositNG. However, a good understanding of the local documentation routine and software is paramount to use real-world data for model generation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Refining our understanding of depressive states and state transitions in response to cognitive behavioural therapy using latent Markov modelling.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: It is increasingly recognized that existing diagnostic approaches do not capture the underlying heterogeneity and complexity of psychiatric disorders such as depression. This study uses a data-driven approach to define fluid depressive states and explore how patients transition between these states in response to cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT).
METHODS: Item-level Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) data were collected from 9891 patients with a diagnosis of depression, at each CBT treatment session. Latent Markov modelling was used on these data to define depressive states and explore transition probabilities between states. Clinical outcomes and patient demographics were compared between patients starting at different depressive states.
RESULTS: A model with seven depressive states emerged as the best compromise between optimal fit and interpretability. States loading preferentially on cognitive/affective v. somatic symptoms of depression were identified. Analysis of transition probabilities revealed that patients in cognitive/affective states do not typically transition towards somatic states and vice-versa. Post-hoc analyses also showed that patients who start in a somatic depressive state are less likely to engage with or improve with therapy. These patients are also more likely to be female, suffer from a comorbid long-term physical condition and be taking psychotropic medication.
CONCLUSIONS: This study presents a novel approach for depression sub-typing, defining fluid depressive states and exploring transitions between states in response to CBT. Understanding how different symptom profiles respond to therapy will inform the development and delivery of stratified treatment protocols, improving clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness of psychological therapies for patients with depression.
Label Included: 0

Title: A computer-guided quality improvement tool for primary health care: cost-effectiveness analysis based on TORPEDO trial data.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of a computer-guided quality improvement intervention for primary health care management of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in people at high risk.
DESIGN: Modelled cost-effectiveness analysis of the HealthTracker intervention and usual care for people with high CVD risk, based on TORPEDO trial data on prescribing patterns, changes in intermediate risk factors (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, systolic blood pressure), and Framingham risk scores.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical population of people with high CVD risk attending primary health care services in a New South Wales primary health network (PHN) of mean size.
INTERVENTION: HealthTracker, integrated into health care provider electronic health record systems, provides real time decision support, risk communication, a clinical audit tool, and a web portal for performance feedback.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs): difference in costs of the intervention and usual care divided by number of CVD events averted with HealthTracker.
RESULTS: The estimated numbers of major CVD events over five years per 1000 patients at high CVD risk were lower in PHNs using HealthTracker, both for patients with prior CVD events (secondary prevention; 259 v 267 with usual care) and for those without prior events (primary prevention; 168 v 176). Medication costs were higher and hospitalisation costs lower with HealthTracker than with usual care for both primary and secondary prevention. The estimated ICER for one averted CVD event was $7406 for primary prevention and $17 988 for secondary prevention.
CONCLUSION: Modelled cost-effectiveness analyses provide information that can assist decisions about investing in health care quality improvement interventions. We estimate that HealthTracker could prevent major CVD events for less than $20 000 per event averted.
TRIAL REGISTRATION (TORPEDO): Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, ACTRN 12611000478910.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of the Clinical and Economic Effects of a Primary Care Anchored, Collaborative, Electronic Health Lifestyle Coaching Program in Denmark: Protocol for a Two-Year Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Obesity is linked to a number of chronic health conditions, such as type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and cancer, and weight loss interventions are often expensive. Recent systematic reviews concluded that app and web-based interventions can improve lifestyle behaviors and weight loss at a reasonable cost, but long-term sustainability needs to be demonstrated.
OBJECTIVE: This study protocol is for a 2-year randomized controlled trial that aims to evaluate the clinical and economic effects of a primary care, anchored, collaborative, electronic health (eHealth) lifestyle coaching program (long-term Lifestyle change InterVention and eHealth Application [LIVA] 2.0) in obese participants with and without type 2 diabetes. The program's primary outcome is weight loss. Its secondary outcome is the hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) level, and its tertiary outcomes are retention rate, quality of life (QOL), and cost effectiveness. Analytically, the focus is on associations of participant characteristics with outcomes and sustainability.
METHODS: We conduct a multicenter trial with a 1-year intervention and 1-year retention. LIVA 2.0 is implemented in municipalities within administrative regions in Denmark, specifically eight municipalities located within the Region of Southern Denmark and two municipalities located within the Capital Region of Denmark. The participants are assessed at baseline and at 6-, 12-, and 24-month follow-ups. Individual data from the LIVA 2.0 platform are combined with clinical measurements, questionnaires, and participants' usage of municipality and health care services. The participants have a BMI ≥30 but ≤45 kg/m2, and 50% of the participants have type 2 diabetes. The participants are randomized in an approximately 60:40 manner, and based on sample size calculations on weight loss and intention-to-treat statistics, 200 participants are randomized to an intervention group and 140 are randomized to a control group. The control group is offered the conventional preventive program of the municipality, and it is compared to the intervention group, which follows the LIVA 2.0 in addition to the conventional preventive program.
RESULTS: The first baseline assessments have been carried out in March 2018, and the 2-year follow-up will be carried out between March 2020 and April 2021. The hypothesis is that the trial results will demonstrate decreased body weight and that the number of patients who show normalization of their HbA1c levels in the intervention group will be much higher than that in the control group. The participants in the intervention group are also expected to show a greater decrease in their use of glucose-lowering medication and a greater improvement in their QOL when compared with the control group. Operational costs are expected to be lower than standard care, and the intervention is expected to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first time that an app and web-based eHealth lifestyle coaching program implemented in Danish municipalities will be clinically and economically evaluated. If the LIVA 2.0 eHealth lifestyle coaching program is proven to be effective, there is great potential for decreasing the rates of obesity, diabetes, and related chronic diseases.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03788915; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03788915.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/19172.
Label Included: 0

Title: Healthcare utilization and costs of pediatric home mechanical ventilation in Canada.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Children using home mechanical ventilation (HMV) live at home with better quality of life, despite financial burden for their family. Previous studies of healthcare utilization and costs have not considered public and private expenditures, including family caregiver time. Our objective was to examine public and private healthcare utilization and costs for children using HMV, and variables associated with highest costs.
METHODS: Longitudinal, prospective, observational cost analysis study (2012-2014) collecting data on public and private (out-of-pocket, third-party insurance, and caregiving) costs every 2 weeks for 6 months using the Ambulatory Home Care Record. Functional Independence Measure (FIM), WeeFIM, and Caregiving Impact Scale (CIS) were measured at baseline and study completion. Regression modeling examined a priori selected variables associated with monthly costs using Andersen and Newman's framework for healthcare utilization, relevant literature, and clinical expertise. Data are reported in 2015 Canadian dollars ($1CAD = $0.78USD).
RESULTS: Forty two children and their caregivers were enrolled. Overall median (interquartile range) monthly healthcare cost was $12 131 ($8159-$15 958) comprising $9929 (89%) family caregiving hours, $996 (9%) publicly funded, and $252 (2%) out-of-pocket (<1% third-party insurance) costs. With higher FIM score (lower dependency), median costs were reduced by 4.5% (95% confidence interval: 8.3%-0.5%), adjusted for age, sex, tracheostomy, and daily ventilation duration. Note: since the three cost categories did not sum to the total statistically derived median cost, the percentage of each category used the sum of median public + caregiver lost time + private out-of-pocket + third-party insurance as the denominator.
CONCLUSIONS: For HMV children, most healthcare costs were due to family caregiving costs. More dependent children incur highest costs. The financial burden to family caregivers is substantial and needs to considered in future policy decisions related to pediatric HMV.
Label Included: 0

Title: Consensus statement on the problem of terminology in psychological interventions using the internet or digital components.
Abstract: Since the emergence of psychological interventions delivered via the Internet they have differed in numerous ways. The wealth of formats, methods, and technological solutions has led to increased availability and cost-effectiveness of clinical care, however, it has simultaneously generated a multitude of terms. With this paper, we first aim to establish whether a terminology issue exists in the field of Internet-delivered psychological interventions. If so, we aim to determine its implications for research, education, and practice. Furthermore, we intend to discuss solutions to mitigate the problem; in particular, we propose the concept of a common glossary. We invited 23 experts in the field of Internet-delivered interventions to respond to four questions, and employed the Delphi method to facilitate a discussion. We found that experts overwhelmingly agreed that there were terminological challenges, and that it had significant consequences for conducting research, treating patients, educating students, and informing the general public about Internet-delivered interventions. A cautious agreement has been reached that formulating a common glossary would be beneficial for the field to address the terminology issue. We end with recommendations for the possible formats of the glossary and means to disseminate it in a way that maximizes the probability of broad acceptance for a variety of stakeholders.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health care provider and patient preparedness for alternative colorectal cancer follow-up; a review.
Abstract: Follow-up after curative treatment for colorectal cancer (CRC) puts pressure on outpatient services due to the growing number of CRC survivors. The aim of this state-of-the-art review was to evaluate setting, manner and provider of follow-up. Moreover, perceptions of CRC survivors and health care providers regarding standard and alternative follow-up were examined. After a comprehensive literature search of the PubMed database, 69 articles were included reporting on CRC follow-up in the hospital, primary care and home setting. Hospital-based follow-up is most common and has been provided by surgeons, medical oncologists, and gastroenterologists, as well as nurses. Primary care-based follow-up has been provided by general practitioners or nurses. Even though most hospital- or primary care-based follow-up care requires patients to visit the clinic, telephone-based care has proven to be a feasible alternative. Most patients perceived follow-up as positive; valuing screening and detection for disease recurrence and appreciating support for physical and psychosocial symptoms. Hospital-based follow-up performed by the medical specialist or nurse is highly preferred by patients and health care providers. However, willingness of both patients and health care providers for alternative, primary care or remote follow-up exists. Nurse-led and GP-led follow-up have proven to be cost-effective alternatives compared to specialist-led follow-up. If proven safe and acceptable, remote follow-up can become a cost-effective alternative. To decrease the personal and financial burden of follow-up for a growing number of colorectal cancer survivors, a more acceptable, flexible and dynamic care follow-up mode consisting of enhanced communication and role definitions among clinicians is warranted.
Label Included: 0

Title: The PRINTEMPS study: protocol of a cluster-randomized controlled trial of the local promotion of a smartphone application and associated website for the prevention of suicidal behaviors in the adult general population in France.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Suicide constitutes a cause of death which could be prevented by e-health programs accessible to the general population. Effective promotion has the potential to maximize the uptake of such programs. However, few e-health programs have been combined with promotion campaigns. The primary objective of this trial is to assess the effectiveness of a tailored promotion, at a local level, of a mobile application and website offering evidence-based content for suicide prevention (the StopBlues program), and to compare the effectiveness of two types of local promotion in terms of their impact on suicidal acts. Secondary objectives focus on the effectiveness of the promotion in terms of the intensity of utilization of the StopBlues program, help-seeking behaviors and the level of psychological impairment of program users.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a three-arm, parallel-group, cluster-randomized controlled trial, with before-and-after observation. Thirty-four clusters, corresponding to geographical areas sharing a common local authority in France, will be included. They will be randomly assigned to one of the following arms with a ratio of 1:1:1: a control group; a basic promotion group in which promotion of the StopBlues program will be done by local authorities; and an intensified promotion group in which basic promotion will be supplemented by an additional one in a general practitioner's waiting room. The primary outcome measure will be the number of suicidal acts within each cluster over a 12-month period following the launch of the intervention. Baseline data will be collected for each cluster over the 12-month period prior to the trial. Secondary outcomes will include length of use of the StopBlues program, measures of help-seeking behaviors and level of psychological distress among users of the program, as well as the cost-effectiveness and budgetary impact of its promotion. A more sustained promotion by local authorities will also be implemented after 12 months in the control group and assessed using the same outcome measures.
DISCUSSION: This research should contribute to the sparse evidence base regarding the promotion of e-health programs and will support the wider delivery of the intervention evaluated if proven effective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, ID: NCT03565562. Registered on 11 June 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Detection of Muscle Weakness in Medical Texts Using Natural Language Processing.
Abstract: Identifying adverse events in clinical documents is demanded in retrospective clinical research and prospective monitoring of treatment safety and cost-effectiveness. We proposed and evaluated a few methods of semi-automated muscle weakness detection in preoperative clinical notes for a larger project on predicting paresis by images. The combination of semi-expert and machine learning methods demonstrated maximized sensitivity = 0.860 and specificity = 0.919, and largest AUC = 0.943 with a 95% CI [0.874; 0.991], outperforming each method used individually. Our approaches are expected to be effective for autoshaping a well- verified training dataset for supervised machine learning.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness and diagnostic accuracy of telemedicine in macular disease and diabetic retinopathy: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine cost-effectiveness and the diagnostic accuracy of teleophthalmology (TO) in the detection of macular edema (ME) and various grades of diabetic retinopathy (DR).
METHODS: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases were searched for TO, ME, and DR on May 25, 2016. The search was updated on April 2, 2019. Pooled sensitivity and specificity for ME and various grades of DR were determined using Meta-Disc software. A systematic review of the articles discussing the cost-effectiveness of TO screening was also performed.
RESULTS: Thirty-three articles on the diagnostic accuracy and 28 articles on the cost-effectiveness were selected.
CONCLUSIONS: Telescreening is moderately sensitive but very specific for the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy. Non-mydriatic Teleretinal screening services are cost-effective, decrease clinics workload, and increase patient compliance if provided free of cost in remote low socioeconomic regions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Demonstrated health care cost savings for women: findings from a community health worker intervention designed to address depression and unmet social needs.
Abstract: To evaluate the impact of a community health worker intervention (CHW) (referred to as Personalized Support for Progress (PSP)) on all-cause health care utilization and cost of care compared with Enhanced Screening and Referral (ESR) among women with depression. A total of 223 patients (111 in PSP and 112 in ESR randomly assigned) from three women's health clinics with elevated depressive symptoms were enrolled in the study. Their electronic health records were queried to extract all-cause health care encounters along with the corresponding billing information 12 months before and after the intervention, as well as during the first 4-month intervention period. The health care encounters were then grouped into three mutually exclusive categories: high-cost (> US$1000 per encounter), medium-cost (US$201-$999), and low-cost (≤ US$200). A difference-in-difference analysis of mean total charge per patient between PSP and ESR was used to assess cost differences between treatment groups. The results suggest the PSP group was associated with a higher total cost of care at the baseline; taking this baseline difference into account, the PSP group was associated with lower mean total charge amounts (p = 0.008) as well as a reduction in the frequency of high-cost encounters (p < 0.001) relative to the ESR group during the post-intervention period. Patient-centered interventions that address unmet social needs in a high-cost population via CHW may be a cost-effective approach to improve quality of care and patient outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: An online supported self-management toolkit for relatives of people with psychosis or bipolar experiences: the IMPART multiple case study
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Digital health interventions have the potential to improve the delivery of psychoeducation to people with mental health problems and their relatives. Despite substantial investment in the development of digital health interventions, successful implementation into routine clinical practice is rare.
OBJECTIVES: Use the implementation of the Relatives’ Education And Coping Toolkit (REACT) for psychosis/bipolar disorder to identify critical factors affecting uptake and use, and develop an implementation plan to support the delivery of REACT.
DESIGN: This was an implementation study using a mixed-methods, theory-driven, multiple case study approach. A study-specific implementation theory for REACT based on normalisation process theory was developed and tested, and iterations of an implementation plan to address the key factors affecting implementation were developed.
SETTING: Early-intervention teams in six NHS mental health trusts in England (three in the north and three in the south).
PARTICIPANTS: In total, 281 staff accounts and 159 relatives’ accounts were created, 129 staff and 23 relatives took part in qualitative interviews about their experiences, and 132 relatives provided demographic data, 56 provided baseline data, 21 provided data at 12 weeks’ follow-up and 20 provided data at 24 weeks’ follow-up.
INTERVENTIONS: REACT is an online supported self-management toolkit, offering 12 evidence-based psychoeducation modules and support via a forum, and a confidential direct messaging service for relatives of people with psychosis or bipolar disorder. The implementation intervention was developed with staff and iteratively adapted to address identified barriers. Adaptations included modifications to the toolkit and how it was delivered by teams.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome was factors affecting implementation of REACT, assessed primarily through in-depth interviews with staff and relatives. We also assessed quantitative measures of delivery (staff accounts and relatives’ invitations), use of REACT (relatives’ logins and time spent on the website) and the impact of REACT [relatives’ distress (General Health Questionnaire-28), and carer well-being and support (Carer Well-being and Support Scale questionnaire)].
RESULTS: Staff and relatives were generally positive about the content of REACT, seeing it as a valuable resource that could help services improve support and meet clinical targets, but only within a comprehensive service that included face-to-face support, and with some additional content. Barriers to implementation included high staff caseloads and difficulties with prioritising supporting relatives; technical difficulties of using REACT; poor interoperability with trust information technology systems and care pathways; lack of access to mobile technology and information technology training; restricted forum populations leading to low levels of use; staff fears of managing risk, online trolling, or replacement by technology; and uncertainty around REACT’s long-term availability. There was no evidence that REACT would reduce staff time supporting relatives (which was already very low), and might increase it by facilitating communication. In all, 281 staff accounts were created, but only 57 staff sent relatives invitations. In total, 355 relatives’ invitations were sent to 310 unique relatives, leading to the creation of 159 relatives’ accounts. The mean number of logins for relatives was 3.78 (standard deviation 4.43), but with wide variation from 0 to 31 (median 2, interquartile range 1–8). The mean total time spent on the website was 40.6 minutes (standard deviation 54.54 minutes), with a range of 0–298 minutes (median 20.1 minutes, interquartile range 4.9–57.5 minutes). There was a pattern of declining mean scores for distress, social dysfunction, depression, anxiety and insomnia, and increases in relatives’ well-being and eHealth literacy, but no changes were statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Digital health interventions, such as REACT, should be iteratively developed, evaluated, adapted and implemented, with staff and service user input, as part of a long-term strategy to develop integrated technology-enabled services. Implementation strategies must instil a sense of ownership for staff and ensure that they have adequate training, risk protocols and resources to deliver the technology. Cost-effectiveness and impact on workload and inequalities in accessing health care need further testing, along with the generalisability of our findings to other digital health interventions.
LIMITATIONS: REACT was offered by the same team running the IMPlementation of A Relatives’ Toolkit (IMPART) study, and was perceived by staff and relatives as a time-limited research study rather than ongoing clinical service, which affected engagement. Access to observational data was limited.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN16267685.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Services and Delivery Research programme and will be published in full in Health Services and Delivery Research; Vol. 8, No. 37. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Continuously Diffused Oxygen Therapy for Wound Healing: A Review of the Clinical Effectiveness, Cost-Effectiveness, and Guidelines
Abstract: Patients with chronic wounds pose a significant and growing challenge for healthcare as populations increase in age and as the prevalence of diabetes, obesity, and atherosclerosis continue to increase worldwide. In addition, failure to heal these wounds is associated with additional burdens of infection, sepsis, amputation, and recurrence complications as well as death from direct complications of the wounds themselves. In Ontario wound care accounts for up to half of home care services, with 31 000 patients admitted to home wound care each year resulting in $108.7 million in service costs alone. The challenging management and rising costs associated with chronic wounds and related complications in many health care settings requires that interventions for chronic wound healing be supported by clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness evidence to improve outcomes. A key modulator in the healing of normal wounds is oxygen, which is a requirement for the physiological wound healing processes of collagen deposition, epithelialization, fibroplasia, angiogenesis, and resistance to infection. Delivery of oxygen through systemic circulation is often impeded in a chronic wound environment which limits the physiological wound healing processes. Topical wound oxygen (TWO2) therapy is aimed at increasing local oxygen concentrations to support wound healing processes without depending on systemic circulation for oxygen delivery. TWO2 can be categorized into two related interventions, continuously diffused oxygen (CDO) therapy (also known as topical continuous oxygen therapy (TCOT)), and topical pressurized oxygen therapy (TPOT). A defining difference is that while TPOT uses local pressurized humidified oxygen, CDO uses a continuous flow of non-humidified oxygen at atmospheric pressure over the wound. Generally, TWO2 therapies are relatively portable, suitable for use in a home care setting, avoid possible complications of related systemic oxygen therapies, and can be used in addition to standard wound care. The purpose of this report is to retrieve and review the existing evidence on the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the use of CDO therapy in comparison to standard wound care alone for patients with chronic wounds. In addition, this report aims to retrieve and review the evidence-based guidelines on the use of CDO for patients with chronic wounds.
Label Included: 0

Title: Factors Associated with 5-Year Costs of Care among a Cohort of Alcohol Use Disorder Patients: A Bayesian Network Model.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To examine the direct effects of risk factors associated with the 5-year costs of care in persons with alcohol use disorder (AUD) and to examine whether remission decreases the costs of care.
METHODS: Based on Electronic Health Record data collected in the North Karelia region in Finland from 2012 to 2016, we built a non-causal augmented naïve Bayesian (ANB) network model to examine the directional relationship between 16 risk factors and the costs of care for a random cohort of 363 AUD patients. Jouffe's proprietary likelihood matching algorithm and van der Weele's disjunctive confounder criteria (DCC) were used to calculate the direct effects of the variables, and sensitivity analysis with tornado diagrams and analysis maximizing/minimizing the total cost of care were conducted.
RESULTS: The highest direct effect on the total cost of care was observed for a number of chronic conditions, indicating on average more than a €26,000 increase in the 5-year mean cost for individuals with multiple ICD-10 diagnoses compared to individuals with less than two chronic conditions. Remission had a decreasing effect on the total cost accumulation during the 5-year follow-up period; the percentage of the lowest cost quartile (42.9% vs. 23.9%) increased among remitters, and that of the highest cost quartile (10.71% vs. 26.27%) decreased compared with current drinkers.
CONCLUSIONS: The ANB model with application of DCC identified that remission has a favorable causal effect on the total cost accumulation. A high number of chronic conditions was the main contributor to excess cost of care, indicating that comorbidity is an essential mediator of cost accumulation in AUD patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of a Machine Learning Program to Correctly Triage Incoming Text Messaging Replies From a Cardiovascular Text-Based Secondary Prevention Program: Feasibility Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: SMS text messaging programs are increasingly being used for secondary prevention, and have been shown to be effective in a number of health conditions including cardiovascular disease. SMS text messaging programs have the potential to increase the reach of an intervention, at a reduced cost, to larger numbers of people who may not access traditional programs. However, patients regularly reply to the SMS text messages, leading to additional staffing requirements to monitor and moderate the patients' SMS text messaging replies. This additional staff requirement directly impacts the cost-effectiveness and scalability of SMS text messaging interventions.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to test the feasibility and accuracy of developing a machine learning (ML) program to triage SMS text messaging replies (ie, identify which SMS text messaging replies require a health professional review).
METHODS: SMS text messaging replies received from 2 clinical trials were manually coded (1) into "Is staff review required?" (binary response of yes/no); and then (2) into 12 general categories. Five ML models (Naïve Bayes, OneVsRest, Random Forest Decision Trees, Gradient Boosted Trees, and Multilayer Perceptron) and an ensemble model were tested. For each model run, data were randomly allocated into training set (2183/3118, 70.01%) and test set (935/3118, 29.98%). Accuracy for the yes/no classification was calculated using area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUC), false positives, and false negatives. Accuracy for classification into 12 categories was compared using multiclass classification evaluators.
RESULTS: A manual review of 3118 SMS text messaging replies showed that 22.00% (686/3118) required staff review. For determining need for staff review, the Multilayer Perceptron model had highest accuracy (AUC 0.86; 4.85% false negatives; and 4.63% false positives); with addition of heuristics (specified keywords) fewer false negatives were identified (3.19%), with small increase in false positives (7.66%) and AUC 0.79. Application of this model would result in 26.7% of SMS text messaging replies requiring review (true + false positives). The ensemble model produced the lowest false negatives (1.43%) at the expense of higher false positives (16.19%). OneVsRest was the most accurate (72.3%) for the 12-category classification.
CONCLUSIONS: The ML program has high sensitivity for identifying the SMS text messaging replies requiring staff input; however, future research is required to validate the models against larger data sets. Incorporation of an ML program to review SMS text messaging replies could significantly reduce staff workload, as staff would not have to review all incoming SMS text messages. This could lead to substantial improvements in cost-effectiveness, scalability, and capacity of SMS text messaging-based interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital Approaches to Remote Pediatric Health Care Delivery During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Existing Evidence and a Call for Further Research.
Abstract: The global spread of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak poses a public health threat and has affected people worldwide in various unprecedented ways, both personally and professionally. There is no question that the current global COVID-19 crisis, now more than ever, is underscoring the importance of leveraging digital approaches to optimize pediatric health care delivery in the era of this pandemic. In this perspective piece, we highlight some of the available digital approaches that have been and can continue to be used to streamline remote pediatric patient care in the era of the COVID-19 pandemic, including but not limited to telemedicine. JMIR Pediatrics and Parenting is currently publishing a COVID-19 special theme issue in which investigators can share their interim and final research data related to digital approaches to remote pediatric health care delivery in different settings. The COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly transformed health care systems worldwide, with significant variations and innovations in adaptation. There has been rapid expansion of the leveraging and optimization of digital approaches to health care delivery, particularly integrated telemedicine and virtual health. Digital approaches have played and will play major roles as invaluable and reliable resources to overcome restrictions and challenges imposed during the COVID-19 pandemic and to increase access to effective, accessible, and consumer-friendly care for more patients and families. However, a number of challenges remain to be addressed, and further research is needed. Optimizing digital approaches to health care delivery and integrating them into the public health response will be an ongoing process during the current COVID-19 outbreak and during other possible future pandemics. Regulatory changes are essential to support the safe and wide adoption of these approaches. Involving all relevant stakeholders in addressing current and future challenges as well as logistical, technological, and financial barriers will be key for success. Future studies should consider evaluating the following research areas related to telemedicine and other digital approaches: cost-effectiveness and return on investment; impact on quality of care; balance in use and number of visits needed for the management of both acute illness and chronic health conditions; system readiness for further adoption in other settings, such as inpatient services, subspecialist consultations, and rural areas; ongoing user-centered evaluations, with feedback from patients, families, and health care providers; strategies to optimize health equity and address disparities in access to care related to race and ethnicity, socioeconomic status, immigration status, and rural communities; privacy and security concerns for protected health information with Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)-secured programs; confidentiality issues for some specific populations, especially adolescents and those in need of mental health services; early detection of exposure to violence and child neglect; and integration of training into undergraduate and graduate medical education and subspecialty fellowships. Addressing these research areas is essential to understanding the benefits, sustainability, safety, and optimization strategies of telemedicine and other digital approaches as key parts of modern health care delivery. These efforts will inform long-term adoption of these approaches with expanded dissemination and implementation efforts.
Label Included: 0

Title: Developing Markov Models From Real-World Data: A Case Study of Heart Failure Modeling Using Administrative Data.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Markov models characterize disease progression as specific health states based on clinical or biological measures. However, these measures are not always collected outside clinical trials. In this article, an alternative approach is presented that uses real-world data to define the health states and to model transitions between them, specific to a local setting, to estimate the cost-effectiveness of telemonitoring (TM) versus no TM for heart failure.
METHODS: The incidence of hospitalization for usual care was estimated from hospital episode statistics (HES) data in the United Kingdom and converted into a monthly transition matrix with 5 health states (4 states are defined based on the number of hospitalizations in the previous year and death) to estimate the cost-effectiveness of TM in a local UK primary care trust (PCT) using probabilistic sensitivity analysis from a healthcare perspective.
RESULTS: Geographical variation in hospitalization rates were present, which led to different health state transition matrices in different localities. In the PCT that was evaluated, TM accrued mean additional costs of £3610 and 0.075 additional quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) compared with usual care per patient, resulting in a mean incremental cost effectiveness ratio of £48 172/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of administrative data to define health states and transition matrices based on health service events is feasible, and TM was not cost-effective in our analysis. Given the increasing emphasis on using real-world evidence, it is likely that these approaches will be used more in the future.
Label Included: 0

Title: Response to "Additional Thoughts on Banning Textured Implants to Prevent Breast Implant-Associated Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma (BIA-ALCL)".
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of mobile technologies on cervical cancer screening practices in Lagos, Nigeria (mHealth-Cervix): Protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: Background: Incidence and mortality from cervical cancer have remained high due to many obstacles facing the implementation of organized screening programs in resource-constrained countries such as Nigeria. The application of mobile technologies (mHealth) to health services delivery has the potential to reduce inequalities, empower patients to control their health, and improve the cost-effectiveness of health care delivery. Aim: To assess the efficacy of mobile technology intervention on Pap test screening adherence compared to a control condition and also determine the factors affecting the uptake of Pap smear screening practices among women in Lagos. Methods: This is a multi-center randomized controlled trial that will involve women aged 25 to 65 years attending the General Outpatient clinics of the two tertiary health institutions in Lagos, Nigeria between April and December 2020. At baseline, a total of 200 National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) enrollees will be randomized to either a text message arm or usual care (control) arm. The primary outcome is the completion of a Pap smear within 6 months of enrolment in the study. The associations between any two groups of continuous variables will be tested using the independent sample t-test (normal distribution) or the Mann-Whitney U test (skewed data) and that of two groups of categorical variables with Chi-square X 2 or Fisher's exact test where appropriate. Using binary logistic regression model, we will adjust for age and other relevant sociodemographic and clinical variables and adherence to Pap test screening. Statistical significance will be defined as P-value less than 0.05. Discussion: The mHealth-Cervix study will evaluate the impact of mobile technologies on cervical cancer screening practices in Lagos, Nigeria as a way of contributing to the reduction in the wide disparities in cervical cancer incidence through early detection facilitated using health promotion to improve Pap smear screening adherence. Registration: PACTR202002753354517 13/02/2020.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health Gain, Cost Impacts, and Cost-Effectiveness of a Mass Media Campaign to Promote Smartphone Apps for Physical Activity: Modeling Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Physical activity smartphone apps are a promising strategy to increase population physical activity, but it is unclear whether government mass media campaigns to promote these apps would be a cost-effective use of public funds.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to estimate the health impacts, costs, and cost-effectiveness of a one-off national mass media campaign to promote the use of physical activity apps.
METHODS: We used an established multistate life table model to estimate the lifetime health gains (in quality-adjusted life years [QALYs]) that would accrue if New Zealand adults were exposed to a one-off national mass media campaign to promote physical activity app use, with a 1-year impact on physical activity, compared to business-as-usual. A health-system perspective was used to assess cost-effectiveness. and a 3% discount rate was applied to future health gains and health system costs.
RESULTS: The modeled intervention resulted in 28 QALYs (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 8-72) gained at a cost of NZ $81,000/QALY (2018 US $59,500; 95% UI 17,000-345,000), over the remaining life course of the 2011 New Zealand population. The intervention had a low probability (20%) of being cost-effective at a cost-effectiveness threshold of NZ $45,000 (US $32,900) per QALY. The health impact and cost-effectiveness of the intervention were highly sensitive to assumptions around the maintenance of physical activity behaviors beyond the duration of the intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: A mass media campaign to promote smartphone apps for physical activity is unlikely to generate much health gain or be cost-effective at the population level. Other investments to promote physical activity, particularly those that result in sustained behavior change, are likely to have greater health impacts.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Investment in End-of-Life Home Care to Enable Death in Community Settings.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many people with terminal illness prefer to die in home-like settings-including care homes, hospices, or palliative care units-rather than an acute care hospital. Home-based palliative care services can increase the likelihood of death in a community setting, but the provision of these services may increase costs relative to usual care.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the incremental cost per community death for persons enrolled in end-of-life home care in Ontario, Canada, who died between 2011 and 2015.
METHODS: Using a population-based cohort of 50,068 older adults, we determined the total cost of care in the last 90 days of life, as well as the incremental cost to achieve an additional community death for persons enrolled in end-of-life home care, in comparison with propensity score-matched individuals under usual care (ie, did not receive home care services in the last 90 days of life).
RESULTS: Recipients of end-of-life home care were nearly 3 times more likely to experience a community death than individuals not receiving home care services, and the incremental cost to achieve an additional community death through the provision of end-of-life home care was CAN$995 (95% confidence interval: -$547 to $2392).
CONCLUSION: Results suggest that a modest investment in end-of-life home care has the potential to improve the dying experience of community-dwelling older adults by enabling fewer deaths in acute care hospitals.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital technology for management of severe mental disorders in low-income and middle-income countries.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Increasingly, digital technologies, especially mobile telecommunications and smartphone apps, are seen as a novel tool for managing severe mental disorders (SMDs) in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). However, there is a need to identify best practices in the use of digital technologies to effectively reach, support, and manage care for patients living with SMDs. In this review, we summarize recent studies using digital technology to manage symptoms and support clinical care for this patient population and discuss new opportunities to advance digital psychiatry research and practice in LMICs.
RECENT FINDINGS: Studies evaluating digital interventions for clinical populations living with SMDs in LMICs are limited. Yet, across recent articles surveyed, digital technology appears to yield diverse benefits for this at-risk patient population. These benefits include improved medication adherence, appointment adherence, reduced instances of relapse, and fewer re-hospitalizations.
SUMMARY: Continued rigorous research evaluating effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of digital technologies in reaching, treating, and managing symptoms and supporting clinical care for patients with SMDs in LMICs is vital. The urgency for remote approaches for delivering specialized psychiatric care is particularly pronounced because of the immediate and long-term impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on access to in-person services. Future research should emphasize participatory approaches rooted in a process of codesign with target users, in order to achieve clinically effective remotely delivered digital mental health interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating a multicomponent program to improve hypertension control in Guatemala: study protocol for an effectiveness-implementation cluster randomized trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Despite advances in hypertension prevention and treatment, the proportion of patients who are aware, treated and controlled is low, particularly in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). We will evaluate an adapted version of a multilevel and multicomponent hypertension control program in Guatemala, previously proven effective and feasible in Argentina. The program components are: protocol-based hypertension treatment using a standardized algorithm; team-based collaborative care; health provider education; health coaching sessions; home blood pressure monitoring; blood pressure audit; and feedback.
METHODS: Using a hybrid type 2 effectiveness-implementation design, we will evaluate clinical and implementation outcomes of the multicomponent program in Guatemala over an 18-month period. Through a cluster randomized trial, we will randomly assign 18 health districts to the intervention arm and 18 to enhanced usual care across five departments, enrolling 44 participants per health district and 1584 participants in total. The clinical outcomes are (1) the difference in the proportion of patients with controlled hypertension (< 130/80 mmHg) between the intervention and control groups at 18 months and (2) the net change in systolic and diastolic blood pressure from baseline to 18 months. The context-enhanced Reach, Efficacy, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance (RE-AIM)/Practical Robust Implementation and Sustainability Model (PRISM) framework will guide the evaluation of the implementation at the level of the patient, provider, and health system. Using a mixed-methods approach, we will evaluate the following implementation outcomes: acceptability, adoption, feasibility, fidelity, adaptation, reach, sustainability, and cost-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: We will disseminate the study findings, and promote scale up and scale out of the program, if proven effective. This study will generate urgently needed data on effective, adoptable, and sustainable interventions and implementation strategies to improve hypertension control in Guatemala and other LMICs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03504124. Registered on 20 April 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: LIVE@Home.Path-innovating the clinical pathway for home-dwelling people with dementia and their caregivers: study protocol for a mixed-method, stepped-wedge, randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The global health challenge of dementia is exceptional in size, cost and impact. It is the only top ten cause of death that cannot be prevented, cured or substantially slowed, leaving disease management, caregiver support and service innovation as the main targets for reduction of disease burden. Institutionalization of persons with dementia is common in western countries, despite patients preferring to live longer at home, supported by caregivers. Such complex health challenges warrant multicomponent interventions thoroughly implemented in daily clinical practice. This article describes the rationale, development, feasibility testing and implementation process of the LIVE@Home.Path trial.
METHODS: The LIVE@Home.Path trial is a 2-year, multicenter, mixed-method, stepped-wedge randomized controlled trial, aiming to include 315 dyads of home-dwelling people with dementia and their caregivers, recruited from 3 municipalities in Norway. The stepped-wedge randomization implies that all dyads receive the intervention, but the timing is determined by randomization. The control group constitutes the dyads waiting for the intervention. The multicomponent intervention was developed in collaboration with user-representatives, researchers and stakeholders to meet the requirements from the national Dementia Plan 2020. During the 6-month intervention period, the participants will be allocated to a municipal coordinator, the core feature of the intervention, responsible for regular contact with the dyads to facilitate L: Learning, I: Innovation, V: Volunteering and E: Empowerment (LIVE). The primary outcome is resource utilization. This is measured by the Resource Utilization in Dementia (RUD) instrument and the Relative Stress Scale (RSS), reflecting that resource utilization is more than the actual time required for caring but also how burdensome the task is experienced by the caregiver.
DISCUSSION: We expect the implementation of LIVE to lead to a pathway for dementia treatment and care which is cost-effective, compared to treatment as usual, and will support high-quality independent living, at home.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT04043364. Registered on 15 March 2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telenephrology: An Emerging Platform for Delivering Renal Health Care.
Abstract: Electronic-based health care delivery systems are gaining popularity among patients and clinicians because of convenience. Importantly, telemedicine, the delivery of health care and/or health information using electronic systems, can deliver primary and specialized health care to geographically isolated patients, who account for nearly 20% of the US population. In nephrology, where a growing discrepancy exists between the geographic location of nephrologists and patients with kidney disease, telenephrology can bridge distance and deliver renal care and education to the isolated. Large nationalized health care systems, for which incentives are aligned to innovate and implement new platforms to deliver cost-effective care, have been at the forefront of telenephrology. These systems include synchronous direct physician-patient care through clinical videoconferencing, and asynchronous modalities such as electronic consultation and video telehealth to educate internists about specialized clinical topics. Large health care organizations are adopting these platforms as standalone services; however, expansion into the private health care system has been limited by reimbursement, regulations, and other issues. Though telenephrology is patient centered, studies are needed to rigorously test its clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness. Nonetheless, growing patient demand for patient-centric health care will continue to expand the telenephrology space.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy of Three Low-Intensity, Internet-Based Psychological Interventions for the Treatment of Depression in Primary Care: Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Primary care is a major access point for the initial treatment of depression, but the management of these patients is far from optimal. The lack of time in primary care is one of the major difficulties for the delivery of evidence-based psychotherapy. During the last decade, research has focused on the development of brief psychotherapy and cost-effective internet-based interventions mostly based on cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). Very little research has focused on alternative methods of treatment for depression using CBT. Thus, there is a need for research into other therapeutic approaches.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the effectiveness of 3 low-intensity, internet-based psychological interventions (healthy lifestyle psychoeducational program [HLP], focused program on positive affect promotion [PAPP], and brief intervention based on mindfulness [MP]) compared with a control condition (improved treatment as usual [iTAU]).
METHODS: A multicenter, 4-arm, parallel randomized controlled trial was conducted between March 2015 and March 2016, with a follow-up of 12 months. In total, 221 adults with mild or moderate major depression were recruited in primary care settings from 3 Spanish regions. Patients were randomly distributed to iTAU (n=57), HLP (n=54), PAPP (n=56), and MP (n=54). All patients received iTAU from their general practitioners. The main outcome was the Spanish version of the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) from pretreatment (time 1) to posttreatment (time 2) and up to 6 (time 3) and 12 (time 4) months' follow-up. Secondary outcomes included the visual analog scale of the EuroQol, the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-12), the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), and the Pemberton Happiness Index (PHI). We conducted regression models to estimate outcome differences along study stages.
RESULTS: A moderate decrease was detected in PHQ-9 scores from HLP (β=-3.05; P=.01) and MP (β=-3.00; P=.01) compared with iTAU at posttreatment. There were significant differences between all intervention groups and iTAU in physical SF-12 scores at 6 months after treatment. Regarding well-being, MP and PAPP reported better PHI results than iTAU at 6 months post treatment. PAPP intervention significantly decreased PANAS negative affect scores compared with iTAU 12 months after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The low-intensity, internet-based psychological interventions (HLP and MP) for the treatment of depression in primary care are more effective than iTAU at posttreatment. Moreover, all low-intensity psychological interventions are also effective in improving medium- and long-term quality of life. PAPP is effective for improving health-related quality of life, negative affect, and well-being in patients with depression. Nevertheless, it is important to examine possible reasons that could be implicated for PAPP not being effective in reducing depressive symptomatology; in addition, more research is still needed to assess the cost-effectiveness analysis of these interventions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Registry ISRCTN82388279; http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN82388279.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR2-10.1186/s12888-015-0475-0.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinicians' Values and Preferences for Medication Adherence and Cost Clinical Decision Support in Primary Care: A Qualitative Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Medication nonadherence and unaffordability are prevalent, burdensome issues in primary care. In response, technology companies are capitalizing on clinical decision support (CDS) to deliver patient-specific information regarding medication adherence and costs to clinicians using electronic health records (EHRs). To maximize adoption and usability, these CDS tools should be designed with consideration of end users' values and preferences.
OBJECTIVE: This article evaluates primary care clinicians' values and preferences for a medication adherence and cost CDS.
METHODS: We conducted semistructured interviews with primary care clinicians with prescribing privileges and EHR access to identify clinicians' perceptions of and approaches to assessing medication adherence and costs, and to determine perceived values and preferences for medication adherence and cost CDS. Interviews were conducted until saturation of responses was reached. ATLAS.ti was used for thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Among 26 clinicians interviewed, themes identified included a high value, but moderate need for a medication adherence CDS and high value and need for cost CDS. Clinicians expressed the cost CDS would provide actionable solutions and greatly impact patient care. Another theme identified was a desire for medication adherence and cost CDS to be separate tools yet integrated into workflow. The majority of clinicians preferred a medication adherence CDS that integrated claims data and actively displayed data using color-coded adherence categories within patients' medication lists in the EHR. For the cost CDS, clinicians preferred medication out-of-pocket costs and a list of cheaper or payor-preferred alternatives to display within the order queue of the EHR.
CONCLUSION: We identified valuable insights regarding clinician values and preferences for medication adherence and cost CDS. Overall, primary care clinicians feel CDS for medication adherence and cost are valuable and prefer them to be separate. These insights should be used to inform the design, implementation, and EHR integration of future medication and cost CDS tools.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Health for Pediatric Weight Management: Systematic Scoping Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The prevalence and consequences of obesity among children and adolescents remain a leading global public health concern, and evidence-based, multidisciplinary lifestyle interventions are the cornerstone of treatment. Mobile electronic devices are widely used across socioeconomic categories and may provide a means of extending the reach and efficiency of health care interventions.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to synthesize the evidence regarding mobile health (mHealth) for the treatment of childhood overweight and obesity to map the breadth and nature of the literature in this field and describe the characteristics of published studies.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic scoping review in line with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for scoping reviews, by searching nine academic databases in addition to gray literature for studies describing acceptability, usability, feasibility, effectiveness, adherence, or cost-effectiveness of interventions assessing mHealth for childhood obesity treatment. We also hand searched the reference lists of relevant articles. Studies aimed at the prevention of overweight or obesity were excluded, as were studies in which mHealth was not the primary mode of treatment delivery for at least one study arm or was not independently assessed. A random portion of all abstracts and full texts was double screened by a second reviewer to ensure consistency. Data were charted according to study characteristics, including design, participants, intervention content, behavior change theory (BCT) underpinning the study, mode of delivery, and outcomes measured.
RESULTS: We identified 42 eligible studies assessing acceptability (n=7), usability (n=2), feasibility or pilot studies (n=15), treatment effect (n=17), and fidelity (n=1). Change in BMI z-scores or percentiles was most commonly measured, among a variety of dietary, physical activity, psychological, and usability or acceptability measures. SMS, mobile apps, and wearable devices made up the majority of mobile interventions, and 69% (29/42) of the studies specified a BCT used.
CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric weight management using mHealth is an emerging field, with most work to date aimed at developing and piloting such interventions. Few large trials are published, and these are heterogeneous in nature and rarely reported according to the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials for eHealth guidelines. There is an evidence gap in the cost-effectiveness analyses of such studies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Rheumatic Heart Disease Echocardiographic Screening in Brazil: Data from the PROVAR+ Study: Cost-effectiveness of RHD screening in Brazil.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: In recent years, new technologies - noticeably ultra-portable echocardiographic machines - have emerged, allowing for Rheumatic Heart Disease (RHD) early diagnosis. We aimed to perform a cost-utility analysis to assess the cost-effectiveness of RHD screening with handheld devices in the Brazilian context.
METHODS: A Markov model was created to assess the cost-effectiveness of one-time screening for RHD in a hypothetical cohort of 11-year-old socioeconomically disadvantaged children, comparing the intervention to standard care using a public perspective and a 30-year time horizon. The model consisted of 13 states: No RHD, Undiagnosed Asymptomatic Borderline RHD, Diagnosed Asymptomatic Borderline RHD, Untreated Asymptomatic Definite RHD, Treated Asymptomatic Definite RHD, Untreated Mild Clinical RHD, Treated Mild Clinical RHD, Untreated Severe Clinical RHD, Treated Severe Clinical RHD, Surgery, Post-Surgery and Death. The initial distribution of the population over the different states was derived from primary echo screening data. Costs of the different states were derived from the Brazilian public health system database. Transition probabilities and utilities were derived from published studies. A discount rate of 3%/year was used. A cost-effectiveness threshold of $25,949.85 per Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) averted is used in concordance with the 3x GDP per capita threshold in 2015.
RESULTS: RHD echo screening is cost-effective with an Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio of $10,148.38 per DALY averted. Probabilistic modelling shows that the intervention could be considered cost-effective in 70% of the iterations.
CONCLUSION: Screening for RHD with hand held echocardiographic machines in 11-year-old children in the target population is cost-effective in the Brazilian context.
HIGHLIGHTS: A cost-effectiveness analysis showed that Rheumatic Heart Disease (RHD) echocardiographic screening utilizing handheld devices, performed by non-physicians with remote interpretation by telemedicine is cost-effective in a 30-year time horizon in Brazil.The model included primary data from the first large-scale RHD screening program in Brazilian underserved populations and costs from the Unified Health System (SUS), and suggests that the Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio of the intervention is considerably below the acceptable threshold for Brazil, even after a detailed sensitivity analysis.Considering the high prevalence of subclinical RHD in Brazil, and the significant economic burden posed by advanced disease, these data are important for the formulation of public policies and surveillance approaches.Cost-saving strategies first implemented in Brazil by the PROVAR study, such as task-shifting to non-physicians, computer-based training, routine use of affordable devices and telemedicine for remote diagnosis may help planning RHD control programs in endemic areas worldwide.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Analysis of Teleophthalmology Screening for Diabetic Retinopathy Using Teleophthalmology Billing Codes.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the financial sustainability of teleophthalmology screening for diabetic retinopathy (DR) using telehealth billing codes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The authors performed an Institutional Review Board-approved retrospective review of medical records, billing data, and quality metrics at the University of California Davis Health System from patients screened for DR through an internal medicine-based telemedicine program using CPT codes 92227 or 92228.
RESULTS: A total of 290 patients received teleophthalmology screening over a 12-month period, resulting in an increase in the DR screening rate from 49% to 63% (P < .0001). The average payment per patient was $19.86, with an estimated cost of $41.02 per patient. The projected per-patient incentive bonus was $43.06 with a downstream referral revenue of $39.38 per patient. One hundred seventy-eight clinic visits were eliminated, providing an estimated cost savings of $42.53 per patient.
CONCLUSION: Sustainable teleophthalmology screening may be achieved by billing telehealth codes but only with health care incentive bonuses, patient referrals, and by accounting for the projected cost-savings of eliminating office visits. [Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging Retina. 2020;51:S26-S34.].
Label Included: 0

Title: Carer administration of as-needed subcutaneous medication for breakthrough symptoms in people dying at home: the CARiAD feasibility RCT.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Most people who are dying want to be cared for at home, but only half of them achieve this. The likelihood of a home death often depends on the availability of able and willing lay carers. When people who are dying are unable to take oral medication, injectable medication is used. When top-up medication is required, a health-care professional travels to the dying person's home, which may delay symptom relief. The administration of subcutaneous medication by lay carers, although not widespread UK practice, has proven to be key in achieving better symptom control for those dying at home in other countries.
OBJECTIVES: To determine if carer administration of as-needed subcutaneous medication for common breakthrough symptoms in people dying at home is feasible and acceptable in the UK, and if it would be feasible to test this intervention in a future definitive randomised controlled trial.
DESIGN: We conducted a two-arm, parallel-group, individually randomised, open pilot trial of the intervention versus usual care, with a 1 : 1 allocation ratio, using convergent mixed methods.
SETTING: Home-based care without 24/7 paid care provision, in three UK sites.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants were dyads of adult patients and carers: patients in the last weeks of their life who wished to die at home and lay carers who were willing to be trained to give subcutaneous medication. Strict risk assessment criteria needed to be met before approach, including known history of substance abuse or carer ability to be trained to competency.
INTERVENTION: Intervention-group carers received training by local nurses using a manualised training package.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quantitative data were collected at baseline and 6-8 weeks post bereavement and via carer diaries. Interviews with carers and health-care professionals explored attitudes to, experiences of and preferences for giving subcutaneous medication and experience of trial processes. The main outcomes of interest were feasibility, acceptability, recruitment rates, attrition and selection of the most appropriate outcome measures.
RESULTS: In total, 40 out of 101 eligible dyads were recruited (39.6%), which met the feasibility criterion of recruiting > 30% of eligible dyads. The expected recruitment target (≈50 dyads) was not reached, as fewer than expected participants were identified. Although the overall retention rate was 55% (22/40), this was substantially unbalanced [30% (6/20) usual care and 80% (16/20) intervention]. The feasibility criterion of > 40% retention was, therefore, considered not met. A total of 12 carers (intervention, n = 10; usual care, n = 2) and 20 health-care professionals were interviewed. The intervention was considered acceptable, feasible and safe in the small study population. The context of the feasibility study was not ideal, as district nurses were seriously overstretched and unfamiliar with research methods. A disparity in readiness to consider the intervention was demonstrated between carers and health-care professionals. Findings showed that there were methodological and ethics issues pertaining to researching last days of life care.
CONCLUSION: The success of a future definitive trial is uncertain because of equivocal results in the progression criteria, particularly poor recruitment overall and a low retention rate in the usual-care group. Future work regarding the intervention should include understanding the context of UK areas where this has been adopted, ascertaining wider public views and exploring health-care professional views on burden and risk in the NHS context. There should be consideration of the need for national policy and of the most appropriate quantitative outcome measures to use. This will help to ascertain if there are unanswered questions to be studied in a trial.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN11211024.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 24, No. 25. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telephone interventions for symptom management in adults with cancer.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People with cancer experience a variety of symptoms as a result of their disease and the therapies involved in its management. Inadequate symptom management has implications for patient outcomes including functioning, psychological well-being, and quality of life (QoL). Attempts to reduce the incidence and severity of cancer symptoms have involved the development and testing of psycho-educational interventions to enhance patients' symptom self-management. With the trend for care to be provided nearer patients' homes, telephone-delivered psycho-educational interventions have evolved to provide support for the management of a range of cancer symptoms. Early indications suggest that these can reduce symptom severity and distress through enhanced symptom self-management.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of telephone-delivered interventions for reducing symptoms associated with cancer and its treatment. To determine which symptoms are most responsive to telephone interventions. To determine whether certain configurations (e.g. with/without additional support such as face-to-face, printed or electronic resources) and duration/frequency of intervention calls mediate observed cancer symptom outcome effects.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2019, Issue 1); MEDLINE via OVID (1946 to January 2019); Embase via OVID (1980 to January 2019); (CINAHL) via Athens (1982 to January 2019); British Nursing Index (1984 to January 2019); and PsycINFO (1989 to January 2019). We searched conference proceedings to identify published abstracts, as well as SIGLE and trial registers for unpublished studies. We searched the reference lists of all included articles for additional relevant studies. Finally, we handsearched the following journals: Cancer, Journal of Clinical Oncology, Psycho-oncology, Cancer Practice, Cancer Nursing, Oncology Nursing Forum, Journal of Pain and Symptom Management, and Palliative Medicine. We restricted our search to publications published in English.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs that compared one or more telephone interventions with one other, or with other types of interventions (e.g. a face-to-face intervention) and/or usual care, with the stated aim of addressing any physical or psychological symptoms of cancer and its treatment, which recruited adults (over 18 years) with a clinical diagnosis of cancer, regardless of tumour type, stage of cancer, type of treatment, and time of recruitment (e.g. before, during, or after treatment).
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used Cochrane methods for trial selection, data extraction and analysis. When possible, anxiety, depressive symptoms, fatigue, emotional distress, pain, uncertainty, sexually-related and lung cancer symptoms as well as secondary outcomes are reported as standardised mean differences (SMDs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and we presented a descriptive synthesis of study findings. We reported on findings according to symptoms addressed and intervention types (e.g. telephone only, telephone combined with other elements). As many studies included small samples, and because baseline scores for study outcomes often varied for intervention and control groups, we used change scores and associated standard deviations. The certainty of the evidence for each outcome was interpreted using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach.
MAIN RESULTS: Thirty-two studies were eligible for inclusion; most had moderate risk of bias,often related to blinding. Collectively, researchers recruited 6250 people and studied interventions in people with a variety of cancer types and across the disease trajectory, although many participants had breast cancer or early-stage cancer and/or were starting treatment. Studies measured symptoms of anxiety, depression, emotional distress, uncertainty, fatigue, and pain, as well as sexually-related symptoms and general symptom intensity and/or distress. Interventions were primarily delivered by nurses (n = 24), most of whom (n = 16) had a background in oncology, research, or psychiatry. Ten interventions were delivered solely by telephone; the rest combined telephone with additional elements (i.e. face-to-face consultations and digital/online/printed resources). The number of calls delivered ranged from 1 to 18; most interventions provided three or four calls. Twenty-one studies provided evidence on effectiveness of telephone-delivered interventions and the majority appeared to reduce symptoms of depression compared to control. Nine studies contributed quantitative change scores (CSs) and associated standard deviation results (or these could be calculated). Likewise, many telephone interventions appeared effective when compared to control in reducing anxiety (16 studies; 5 contributed quantitative CS results); fatigue (9 studies; 6 contributed to quantitative CS results); and emotional distress (7 studies; 5 contributed quantitative CS results). Due to significant clinical heterogeneity with regards to interventions introduced, study participants recruited, and outcomes measured, meta-analysis was not conducted. For other symptoms (uncertainty, pain, sexually-related symptoms, dyspnoea, and general symptom experience), evidence was limited; similarly meta-analysis was not possible, and results from individual studies were largely conflicting, making conclusions about their management through telephone-delivered interventions difficult to draw. Heterogeneity was considerable across all trials for all outcomes. Overall, the certainty of evidence was very low for all outcomes in the review. Outcomes were all downgraded due to concerns about overall risk of bias profiles being frequently unclear, uncertainty in effect estimates and due to some inconsistencies in results and general heterogeneity. Unsubstantiated evidence suggests that telephone interventions in some capacity may have a place in symptom management for adults with cancer. However, in the absence of reliable and homogeneous evidence, caution is needed in interpreting the narrative synthesis. Further, there were no clear patterns across studies regarding which forms of interventions (telephone alone versus augmented with other elements) are most effective. It is impossible to conclude with any certainty which forms of telephone intervention are most effective in managing the range of cancer-related symptoms that people with cancer experience.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Telephone interventions provide a convenient way of supporting self-management of cancer-related symptoms for adults with cancer. These interventions are becoming more important with the shift of care closer to patients' homes, the need for resource/cost containment, and the potential for voluntary sector providers to deliver healthcare interventions. Some evidence supports the use of telephone-delivered interventions for symptom management for adults with cancer; most evidence relates to four commonly experienced symptoms - depression, anxiety, emotional distress, and fatigue. Some telephone-delivered interventions were augmented by combining them with face-to-face meetings and provision of printed or digital materials. Review authors were unable to determine whether telephone alone or in combination with other elements provides optimal reduction in symptoms; it appears most likely that this will vary by symptom. It is noteworthy that, despite the potential for telephone interventions to deliver cost savings, none of the studies reviewed included any form of health economic evaluation. Further robust and adequately reported trials are needed across all cancer-related symptoms, as the certainty of evidence generated in studies within this review was very low, and reporting was of variable quality. Researchers must strive to reduce variability between studies in the future. Studies in this review are characterised by clinical and methodological diversity; the level of this diversity hindered comparison across studies. At the very least, efforts should be made to standardise outcome measures. Finally, studies were compromised by inclusion of small samples, inadequate concealment of group allocation, lack of observer blinding, and short length of follow-up. Consequently, conclusions related to symptoms most amenable to management by telephone-delivered interventions are tentative.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of SARS-CoV2 (Covid-19) on dental practices: Economic analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To combat SARS-CoV2 (Covid-19), policy makers worldwide have adopted different policy alternatives, often including mitigation/suppression policies. We assessed the economic impact of such policies on dental practices in Germany using a modelling approach.
METHODS: A providers' perspective within German healthcare was taken, with two provider scenarios (low/high volume practice, low/high proportion of non-statutory insurance revenue, low/high staff pool and costs; S1 and S2 scenarios) being modelled. Providers' costs were estimated in different blocks (staff, material, laboratory, others). A telephone-based survey was conducted on 24th March to 2nd April 2020 on a random sample of 300 German dentists (response: n = 146) to determine the experienced dental services utilization changes in these service blocks. A Markov model was constructed, following 100 practices in each scenario for a total of 365 days. Different Covid-19 mitigation/suppression periods (90 days: base-case, 45, 135 days: sensitivity analyses) were modelled. Monte-Carlo micro-simulation was performed and uncertainty introduced via probabilistic and univariate sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Mitigation/suppression reduced utilization of all services, the most severe for prevention (-80 % in mean), periodontics (-76 %) and prosthetics (-70 %). Within the base-case, mean revenue reductions were 18.7 %/15.7 % from the public insurance, 18.7/18.6 % from private insurers and 19 %/19 % for out-of-pocket expenses in S1/S2, respectively. If the mitigation/suppression was upheld for 135 days, overall revenue decreased by 31 %/30 % in S1/S2, respectively. In this case, 29 %/12 % S1/S2 would have a negative net profit over the course of one year.
CONCLUSIONS: Covid-19 and associated policies have profound economic effect on dental practices.
CLINICAL SIGNIFIANCE: Policy makers will want to consider our findings when designing governmental subsidy and safety nets with immediate and midterm economic relieve effects. Dentists may consider practice re-organization to reduce costs and maintain minimum profitability.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Baby Bridge program: A sustainable program that can improve therapy service delivery for preterm infants following NICU discharge.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this project was to determine revenues and costs over time to assess the sustainability of the Baby Bridge program.
METHODS: The Baby Bridge program was developed to promote timely, consistent and high quality early therapy services for high-risk infants following neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) discharge. Key features of the Baby Bridge program were defined as: 1) having the therapist establish rapport with the family while in the NICU, 2) scheduling the first home visit within one week of discharge and continuing weekly visits until other services commence, 3) conducting comprehensive assessments to inform targeted interventions by a skilled, single provider, and 4) using a comprehensive therapeutic approach while collaborating with the NICU medical team and community therapy providers. The Baby Bridge program was implemented with infants hospitalized in an urban Level IV NICU from January 2016 to January 2018. The number of infants enrolled increased gradually over the first several months to reach the case-load capacity associated with one full-time therapist by mid-2017. Costs of the therapists delivering Baby Bridge services, travel, and equipment were tracked and compared with claim records of participants. The operational cost of Baby Bridge programming at capacity was estimated based on the completed and anticipated claims and reimbursement of therapy services as a means to inform possible scale-ups of the program.
RESULTS: In 2016, the first year of programming, the Baby Bridge program experienced a loss of $26,460, with revenue to the program totaling $11,138 and expenses totaling $37,598. In 2017, the Baby Bridge program experienced a net positive income of $2,969, with revenues to the program totaling $53,989 and expenses totaling $51,020. By Spring 2017, 16 months after initiating Baby Bridge programming, program revenue began to exceed cost. It is projected that cumulative revenue would have exceeded cumulative costs by January 2019, 3 years following implementation. Net annual program income, once scaled up to capacity, would be approximately $16,308.
DISCUSSION: There were initial losses during phase-in of Baby Bridge programming associated with operating far below capacity, yet the program achieved sustainability within 16 months of implementation. These costs related to implementation do not consider the potential cost reduction due to mitigated health burden for the community and families, particularly due to earlier receipt of therapy services, which is an important area for further inquiry.
Label Included: 0

Title: From personalised nutrition to precision medicine: the rise of consumer genomics and digital health.
Abstract: Advances in genomics generated the concept that a better understanding of individual characteristics, e.g. genotype, will lead to improved tailoring of pharmaceutical and nutritional therapies. Subsequent developments in proteomics and metabolomics, in addition to wearable technologies for tracking parameters, such as dietary intakes, physical activity, heart rate and blood glucose, have further driven this idea. Alongside these innovations, there has been a rapid rise in companies offering direct-to-consumer genetic and/or microbiome testing, in combination with the marketing of personalised nutrition services. Key scientific questions include how disparate datasets are integrated, how accurate are current predictions and how these may be developed in the future. In this regard, lessons can be learned from systems biology, which aims both to integrate data from different levels of organisation (e.g. genomic, proteomic and metabolomic) and predict the emergent behaviours of biological systems or organisms as a whole. The present paper reviews the origins and recent advancement of 'big data' and systems approaches in medicine and nutrition. Conclusions are that systems integration of multiple technologies has generated mechanistic insights and informed the evolution of precision medicine and personalised nutrition. Pertinent ethical issues include who is entitled to access new technologies and how commercial companies are storing, using and/or re-mining consumer data. Questions about efficacy (both long-term behavioural change and health outcomes), cost-benefit and impacts on health inequalities remain to be fully addressed.
Label Included: 0

Title: E-HeaRT BPA: electronic health record telemetry BPA.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Continuous cardiac monitoring in non-critical care settings is expensive and overutilised. As such, it is an important target of hospital interventions to establish cost-effective, high-quality care. Since inappropriate telemetry use was persistently elevated at our institution, we devised an electronic best practice alert (BPA) and tested it in a randomised controlled fashion.
METHODS: Between 4 March 2018 and 5 July 2018 at our 600-bed academic hospital, all non-critical care patients who had at least one telemetry order were randomised to the control or intervention group. The intervention group received daily BPAs if telemetry was active.
RESULTS: 275 and 283 patients were randomised to the intervention and control groups, respectively. The intervention group triggered 1042 alerts and trended toward fewer telemetry days (3.8 vs 5.0, p=0.017). The intervention group stopped telemetry 31.7% of the alerted patient-days compared with 23.3% for the control group (OR 1.53, 95% CI 1.24 to 1.88, p<0.001). There were no significant differences in length of stay, rapid responses, code blues, or mortality between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Using a randomised controlled design, we show that BPAs significantly reduce telemetry without negatively affecting patient outcomes. They should have a role in promoting high-value telemetry use.
Label Included: 0

Title: Understanding virtual urology clinics: a systematic review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To perform a systematic review to identify the clinical, fiscal and environmental evidence on the use of urological telehealth and/or virtual clinic (VC) strategies, and to highlight research gaps in this rapidly evolving field.
METHODS: Our PROSPERO-registered (CRD42019151946) systematic search of Embase, Medline and the Cochrane Review Database was performed to identify original research articles pertaining to adult urology telehealth or VC strategies. Risk-of-bias (RoB) assessment was performed according to the Cochrane 2.0 RoB tool or the Joanna Briggs Institute Checklist for non-randomized studies.
RESULTS: A total of 5813 participants were included from 18 original articles (two randomized controlled trials [RCTs], 10 prospective studies, six retrospective studies). Urology sub-specialities comprised: uro-oncology (n = 6); general urology (n = 8); endo-urology (n = 2); and lower urinary tract symptoms and/or incontinence (n = 2). Across all sub-specialties, prospective studies using VCs reported a primary median (interquartile range [IQR]) VC discharge rate of 16.6 (14.7-29.8)% and a primary median (IQR) face-to-face (FTF) clinic referral rate of 32.4 (15.5-53.3)%. Direct cost analysis demonstrated median (IQR) annual cost savings of £56 232 (£46 260-£61 116). Grade II and IIIb complications were reported in two acute ureteric colic studies, with rates of 0.20% (3/1534) and 0.13% (2/1534), respectively. The annual carbon footprint avoided ranged from 0.7 to 4.35 metric tonnes of CO2 emissions, depending on the mode of transport used. Patient satisfaction was inconsistently reported, and assessments lacked prospective evaluation using validated questionnaires.
CONCLUSION: Urology VCs are a promising new platform which can offer clinical, financial and environmental benefits to support an increasing urological referral burden. Further prospective evidence is required across urological sub-specialties to confirm equivalency and safety against traditional FTF assessment.
Label Included: 0

Title: Psychological interventions for people with psychotic experiences: A systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled and uncontrolled effectiveness and economic studies.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Many people with psychotic experiences do not develop psychotic disorders, yet those who seek help demonstrate high clinical complexity and poor outcomes. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we evaluated the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of psychological interventions for people with psychotic experiences.
METHOD: We searched 13 databases for studies of psychological interventions for adults with psychotic experiences, but not psychotic disorders. Our outcomes were the proportion of participants remitting from psychotic experiences (primary); changes in positive and negative psychotic symptoms, depression, anxiety, functioning, distress, and quality of life; and economic outcomes (secondary). We analysed results using multilevel random-effects meta-analysis and narrative synthesis.
RESULTS: A total of 27 reports met inclusion criteria. In general, there was no strong evidence for the superiority of any one intervention. Five studies reported on our primary outcome, though only two reports provided randomised controlled trial evidence that psychological intervention (specifically, cognitive behavioural therapy) promoted remission from psychotic experiences. For secondary outcomes, we could only meta-analyse trials of cognitive behavioural therapy. We found that cognitive behavioural therapy was more effective than treatment as usual for reducing distress (pooled standardised mean difference: -0.24; 95% confidence interval = [-0.37, -0.10]), but no more effective than the control treatment for improving any other outcome. Individual reports indicated that cognitive behavioural therapy, mindfulness-based cognitive therapy, sleep cognitive behavioural therapy, systemic therapy, cognitive remediation therapy, and supportive treatments improved at least one clinical or functional outcome. Four reports included economic evaluations, which suggested cognitive behavioural therapy may be cost-effective compared with treatment as usual.
CONCLUSION: Our meta-analytic findings were primarily null, with the exception that cognitive behavioural therapy may reduce the distress associated with psychotic experiences. Our analyses were limited by scarcity of studies, small samples and variable study quality. Several intervention frameworks showed preliminary evidence of positive outcomes; however, the paucity of consistent evidence for clinical and functional improvement highlights a need for further research into psychological treatments for psychotic experiences.
PROSPERO PROTOCOL REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42016033869.
Label Included: 0

Title: Conceptual Design, Implementation, and Evaluation of Generic and Standard-Compliant Data Transfer into Electronic Health Records.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study is the conceptual design, implementation and evaluation of a system for generic, standard-compliant data transfer into electronic health records (EHRs). This includes patient data from clinical research and medical care that has been semantically annotated and enhanced with metadata. The implementation is based on the single-source approach. Technical and clinical feasibilities, as well as cost-benefit efficiency, were investigated in everyday clinical practice.
METHODS: Münster University Hospital is a tertiary care hospital with 1,457 beds and 10,823 staff who treated 548,110 patients in 2018. Single-source metadata architecture transformation (SMA:T) was implemented as an extension to the EHR system. This architecture uses Model Driven Software Development (MDSD) to generate documentation forms according to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) operational data model (ODM). Clinical data are stored in ODM format in the EHR system database. Documentation forms are based on Google's Material Design Standard. SMA:T was used at a total of five clinics and one administrative department in the period from March 1, 2018 until March 31, 2019 in everyday clinical practice.
RESULTS: The technical and clinical feasibility of SMA:T was demonstrated in the course of the study. Seventeen documentation forms including 373 data items were created with SMA:T. Those were created for 2,484 patients by 283 users in everyday clinical practice. A total of 121 documentation forms were examined retrospectively. The Constructive cost model (COCOMO II) was used to calculate cost and time savings. The form development mean time was reduced by 83.4% from 3,357 to 557 hours. Average costs per form went down from EUR 953 to 158.
CONCLUSION: Automated generic transfer of standard-compliant data and metadata into EHRs is technically and clinically feasible, cost efficient, and a useful method to establish comprehensive and semantically annotated clinical documentation. Savings of time and personnel resources are possible.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating Safety and Efficacy of Follow-up for Patients With Abdominal Pain Using Video Consultation (SAVED Study): Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The benefits of telemedicine include cost savings and decentralized care. Video consultation is one form that enables early detection of deteriorating patients and promotion of self-efficacy in patients who are well but anxious. Abdominal pain is a common symptom presented by patients in emergency departments. These patients could benefit from video consultation, as it enables remote follow-up of patients who do not require admission and facilitates early discharge of patients from overcrowded hospitals.
OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the use of digital telereview in patients presenting with undifferentiated acute abdominal pain.
METHODS: The SAVED study was a prospective randomized controlled trial in which follow-up using existing telephone-based telereview (control) was compared with digital telereview (intervention). Patients with undifferentiated acute abdominal pain discharged from the emergency department observation ward were studied based on intention-to-treat. The control arm received routine, provider-scheduled telereview with missed reviews actively coordinated and rescheduled by emergency department staff. The intervention arm received access to a platform for digital telereview (asynchronous and synchronous format) that enabled patient-led appointment rescheduling. Patients were followed-up for 2 weeks for outcomes of service utilization, efficacy (compliance with their disposition plan), and safety (re-presentation for the same condition).
RESULTS: A total of 70 patients participated, with patients randomly assigned to each arm (1:1 ratio). Patients were a mean age of 40.0 (SD 13.8; range 22-71) years, predominantly female (47/70, 67%), and predominantly of Chinese ethnicity (39/70, 56%). The telereview service was used by 32 patients in the control arm (32/35, 91%) and 18 patients in the intervention arm (18/35, 51%). Most patients in control (33/35, 94%; 95% CI 79.5%-99.0%) and intervention (34/35, 97%; 95% CI 83.4%-99.9%) arms were compliant with their final disposition. There was a low rate of re-presentation at 72 hours and 2 weeks for both control (72 hours: 2/35, 6%; 95% CI 1.0%-20.5%; 2 weeks: 2/35, 6%, 95% CI 1.0%-20.5%) and intervention (72 hours: 2/35, 6%; 95% CI 1.0%-20.5%; 2 weeks: 3/35, 9%, 95% CI 2.2%-24.2%) arms. There were no significant differences in safety (P>.99) and efficacy (P>.99) between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The application of digital telereview for the follow-up of patients with abdominal pain may be safe and effective. Future studies are needed to evaluate its cost-effectiveness and usefulness for broader clinical application.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Registry ISRCTN28468556; http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN28468556.
Label Included: 0

Title: Assessing the Preferences for Criteria in Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis in Treatments for Rare Diseases.
Abstract: Background: Increasingly, multi-criteria decision analysis has gained importance as a method by which to assess the value of orphan drugs. However, very little attention has been given to the weight (relative preferences) of the individual criteria used in a framework. Aims: This study sought to gain an understanding of the preferential weights that should be allocated in a multi-criteria decision analysis framework for orphan drugs, from a multi-stakeholder perspective. Method: Using key MCDA criteria for orphan drugs reported in the literature, we developed an interactive web-based survey tool to capture preferences for different criteria from a general stakeholder sample who were requested to assign weights from a reimbursement perspective. Each criterion could be assigned a weight on a sliding scale from 0 to 100% as long as the sum of all the criteria was 100%. We subsequently used the interactive tool with an expert focus group, followed up with a group discussion regarding each criterion and their perspectives on the weight that each criterion should be allocated when assessing an orphan drug. The expert focus group participants were then able to adjust their weights, if the group discussion had changed their perspectives. Results: The interactive tool was completed by 120 general stakeholder sample from a wide range of countries and professional backgrounds and an expert focus group of ten members. The results showed the differences in perspectives on the importance of criteria. Both groups considered Treatment efficacy to be the most important criterion. The general stakeholder sample weighted Treatment safety at 12.03% compared to the expert focus group's average of 20%. The results also demonstrated the value of the group discussion, which provided additional insights into the perspectives on the importance of criteria in assessing orphan drugs. Conclusion: This study aimed to contribute to the important aspect of preferences for different criteria in MCDA. This study sheds light on the important aspect of the preferences of the different criteria. All respondents agreed on the relative importance of Treatment efficacy and Treatment safety, criteria that are captured in conventional cost-effectiveness studies, but they also expressed the view that in addition to those, several disease-related and drug-related criteria should be included in MCDA frameworks for assessing orphan drugs.
Label Included: 0

Title: The economics of drug allergy.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: As drug allergy research aims to inform clinical practice, implementation of best practices may be influenced by financial resources required to incorporate new interventions and the resulting clinical and economic returns on those resource investments. The present review summarizes new insights into the economics of drug allergy over the past year.
RECENT FINDINGS: While considering economic implications of recent drug allergy research, many studies have addressed different contextual factors related to the setting, provider, or outcomes. Advances in technology have enabled specialized allergists to support remote settings through telemedicine consultation. Training opportunities and interdisciplinary approaches to address drug allergy challenges have enabled multiple provider types to play a role in screening, diagnosis, and management. Penicillin allergy testing has been a major focus for many institutions, with several studies focused on de-labeling strategies including confirmatory skin testing and direct oral challenges.
SUMMARY: Studies over the past year provide new opportunities for the field of drug allergy research. The focus of current research to capture direct health costs or savings associated with drug allergy interventions demonstrates opportunity for more cost-effective care delivery and opportunity to explore greater benefits to society.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility of Real Time Internet-Based Teleconsultation in Patients With Multiple Sclerosis: Interventional Pilot Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine (TM) is currently flourishing in rural and emergency settings, but its implementation in the routine management of chronic neurological disorders has developed with more hesitation. Limited access to specialized care facilities and expanding patient populations, combined with unprecedented mobility restrictions imposed by the coronavirus disease pandemic, are currently stressing the need for remote solutions in this field. Studies in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) have been heterogeneous in objectives and methodology but generally support the concept that TM interventions produce clinical benefits, cost-effectiveness, and user satisfaction. Nonetheless, data on live interaction between patients and health care providers for MS teleconsultation purposes remain scarce.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to demonstrate the feasibility of planned real time audiovisual teleconsultation over the internet for patients with MS.
METHODS: A total of 20 patients with MS presenting at a specialized MS center in Belgium were recruited for this study. One teleconsultation was scheduled for each participant. Patients were provided a unique hyperlink by mail in advance, leading them automatically and directly to the virtual waiting room, where they could accept or decline our incoming call. All teleconsultations were performed by a trained medical student with the intention to keep the conversation similar to what is usually discussed during a classic face-to-face MS consultation; no remote physical exams were performed. The approach was considered feasible if at least 80% of the planned TM visits could be successfully completed at the foreseen moment. Patient satisfaction (technical quality, convenience, and overall quality of care) was evaluated at the end of each teleconsultation by means of 5-point Likert scales containing the categories very unsatisfied, unsatisfied, neutral, satisfied, and highly satisfied.
RESULTS: Out of 20 consultations, 17 were successfully completed (85%). Failures were due to patients not responding (n=2) and technical issues (n=1). Out of the 17 consultations, 17 patients declared themselves satisfied or highly satisfied for technical quality, 15 patients for convenience, and 16 patients for overall quality of care.
CONCLUSIONS: Planned real time audiovisual teleconsultation over the internet is feasible and highly appreciated in patients with MS. Incorporation of such services in routine clinical MS practice is expected to improve access to specialized care facilities for affected patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hospital-based or home-based administration of oncology drugs? A micro-costing study comparing healthcare and societal costs of hospital-based and home-based subcutaneous administration of trastuzumab.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate resource use and time investments of healthcare professionals, patients and their family and to compare healthcare and societal costs of one single hospital-based and one single home-based subcutaneous administration of trastuzumab in The Netherlands.
METHOD: We conducted a bottom-up micro-costing study. Patients diagnosed with HER2+ early or metastatic breast cancer were recruited in four Dutch hospitals. For healthcare costs, data were collected on drug use, consumables, use of healthcare facilities, time of healthcare professionals, and travelling distance of the nurse. For societal costs, data were collected on patient and family costs (including travelling expenses and time of informal caregivers) and productivity losses of paid and unpaid work.
RESULTS: Societal costs of one single administration of SC trastuzumab were €1753 within the home-based and €1724 within the hospital-based setting. Drug costs of trastuzumab were identical in both settings (€1651). Healthcare costs were higher for home-based administration (€91 versus €47) mainly because of more time of healthcare professionals (110 versus 38 minutes). Costs for patient and family were, however, lower for home-based administration due to travelling expenses (€7 versus €0) and time of informal caregivers (€14 versus €4). Costs for productivity losses were similar for both settings.
CONCLUSIONS: Home-based subcutaneous administration of trastuzumab is more time consuming for healthcare professionals and therefore more costly than hospital-based administration. The total budget impact can be large considering that a large number of patients receive a large number of cycles of oncology treatments. If home-based administration is the way forward, novel approaches are crucial for ensuring efficiency of home-based care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Integrated palliative homecare in advanced dementia: reduced healthcare utilisation and costs.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To determine the economic benefit of an integrated home-based palliative care programme for advanced dementia (Programme Dignity), evaluation is required. This study aimed to estimate Programme Dignity's average monthly cost from a provider's perspective; and compare healthcare utilisation and costs of programme patients with controls, accounting for enrolment duration.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study. Home-dwelling patients with advanced dementia (stage 7 on the functional assessment staging in Alzheimer's disease) with a history of pneumonia, albumin <35 g/L or tube-feeding and known to be deceased were analysed (Programme Dignity=184, controls=139). One-year programme operational costs were apportioned on a per patient-month basis. Cumulative healthcare utilisation and costs were examined at 1, 3 and 6 months look-back from death. Between-group comparisons used Poisson, zero-inflated Poisson regressions and generalised linear models.
RESULTS: The average monthly programme cost was SGD$1311 (SGD-Pounds exchange rate: 0.481) per patient. Fully enrolled programme patients were less likely to visit the emergency department (incidence rate ratios (IRRs): 1 month=0.56; 3 months=0.19; 6 months=0.10; all p<0.001), be admitted to hospital (IRRs: 1 month=0.60; 3 months=0.19; 6 months=0.15; all p<0.001), had a lower cumulative length of stay (IRRs: 1 month=0.78; 3 months=0.49; 6 months=0.24; all p<0.001) and incurred lesser healthcare utilisation costs (β-coefficients: 1 month=0.70; 3 months=0.40; 6 months=0.43; all p<0.01) at all time-points examined.
CONCLUSION: Programme Dignity for advanced dementia reduces healthcare utilisation and costs. If scalable, it may benefit more patients wishing to remain at home at the end-of-life, allowing for a potentially sustainable care model to cope with rapid population ageing. It contributes to the evidence base of advanced dementia palliative care and informs healthcare policy making. Future studies should estimate informal caregiving costs for comprehensive economic evaluation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility of a Randomized Controlled Trial of Paediatric Interdisciplinary Pain Management Using Home-Based Telehealth.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Chronic pain is common in adolescents. Evidence-based guidelines recommend interdisciplinary treatment, but access is limited by geography. The development of hybrid programs utilizing both face-to-face and videoconference treatment may help overcome this. We developed a 7-week hybrid pediatric interdisciplinary pain program (Hybrid-PIPP) and wished to compare it to individual face-to-face sessions (Standard Care). Our objective was to test the feasibility of a protocol that used a matched pair un-blinded randomized controlled design to investigate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the Hybrid-PIPP compared to Standard Care.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Parent-adolescent dyads were recruited from tertiary pediatric clinics and matched by disability before randomization to minimize allocation bias. The adolescents (aged 11-17) had experienced primary pain for >3 months. Hybrid-PIPP involved 11 hrs of group therapy and 4 individual videoconference sessions. Standard care was provided by the same clinical team, using the same treatment model and similar intensity as the Hybrid-PIPP. The intention was to recruit participants for 3 Hybrid-PIPP groups with a comparison stream. Recruitment was ceased after 2 groups due to the high participant disability requiring more intensive intervention.
RESULTS: Eighteen dyads were screened and 13 randomized (7 Hybrid-PIPP, 6 Standard Care, 2 unsuitable, 3 unallocated when the study was stopped). The study met a priori feasibility criteria for staff availability; recruitment rate; treatment completion; and data collection. Global satisfaction ratings were similar in both streams (SC median 7, range 5-9 and Hybrid-PIPP median 8.5, range 5-10). Challenges were identified in both streams. A future modified Hybrid-PIPP was considered acceptable if the intensity is increased to manage the high level of disability. Standard care was considered inefficient. No adverse events were reported.
CONCLUSION: The study determined that the protocol met a priori feasibility criteria, but to be practicable in a real world, health environment requires significant modifications.
REGISTRATION: ANZTR(ACTRN2614000489695).
Label Included: 0

Title: Organizational changes in diabetic foot care practices for patients at low and moderate risk after implementing a comprehensive foot care program in Alberta, Canada.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Neuropathy and vasculopathy can lead to costly and debilitating complications in people with diabetes. The purpose of this study was to evaluate, at an organizational level, uptake of practices included in a diabetic foot care clinical pathway and associated resources. This research focused on patients at low and moderate risk in Alberta, Canada between 2014 to 2019.
METHODS: Serial surveys (2014, 2019) of practices related to screening and care of the feet of people with diabetes. Surveys were administered using a combination of targeted and snowball sampling in order to assess the impact of the clinical pathway first implemented in 2015. The pathway focused on screening, assessment and referral of patients from primary care. High-risk foot teams (HRFT) were established at six sites to provide increased access to specialty care. Comparative statistics were performed to assess differences in footcare practices between 2014 and 2019 using two-tailed Fisher's exact test or Chi-square test.
RESULTS: Respondents (n = 104, 2014 and n = 75, 2019) included personnel from primary health care, home care and long-term care, acute and emergency care, specialty clinics, diabetes-specific programs and private contractors. The proportion of primary care and home care/long-term care (HC/LTC) sites providing screening increased significantly (p < 0.05). A significant increase in the proportion of sites providing assessment for patients designated as moderate risk also increased from 35% (34 out of 96 sites) to 55% (36 out of 65 sites) (p < 0.05), particularly with respect to vascular assessment, and the proportion of sites reporting appropriate follow-up intervals according to the pathway recommendation was also improved.
CONCLUSION: Provision of a clinical pathway for diabetic foot care along with education and resources led to increased screening in primary care and HC/LTC settings in Alberta, Canada. HRFT provided primary healthcare providers with an important option for referral and also provided increased expertise for procedures such as vascular assessment for patients with moderate risk of ulceration. This comprehensive model has the potential to reduce progression of foot problems and overall health services utilization. Further analyses of outcomes such as incident lower limb amputation and long-term cost-effectiveness of pathway implementation are underway.
Label Included: 0

Title: COVID-19 and myeloma: what are the implications for now and in the future?
Abstract: The pandemic has affected every aspect of myeloma care. Immediate focus is minimising risk of contracting coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and the sequelae of infection. However, what does the future hold for our patients? What lessons will be taken forward to tackle myeloma in the fiscally constrained future? If we embrace the challenges that will emerge in the post-pandemic environment, the treatment delivered to patients could be more cost-effective and better tailored than before. Healthcare delivery post-COVID-19 will not return to how it was, and now is the time to invest in novel strategies to deliver the best possible outcomes for patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: A review of mobile stroke units.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Mobile stroke units (MSUs) for prehospital treatment and management of patients with acute stroke have been developed more than a decade ago and is currently spreading worldwide. This review discusses the history of MSU and current operations and research.
RECENT FINDINGS: Multiple studies have shown that MSU can significantly reduce treatment time with a tenfold increase of patients treated within the first 60 min of symptom onset. Recent preliminary results from the Berlin Prehospital or Usual Delivery of Acute Stroke Care trial (B-PROUD) showed a positive shift in modified Rankin Scale (mRS) scores at 3 months for patients treated in MSUs. Two German studies indicate that the MSU model is cost effective by reducing disability and improving adjusted quality-life years after stroke. The MSU model for prehospital management of acute stroke is spreading worldwide. More research is needed, however, to establish cost-effectiveness, efficacy and best setting for prehospital stroke management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of remote monitoring of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators in France: a meta-analysis and an integrated economic model derived from randomized controlled trials.
Abstract: AIMS: Cost-effectiveness data on the remote monitoring (RM) of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) compared to the current standard of care (SC) remains limited. This meta-analysis was performed to assess the economic burden, and to develop an integrated economic model evaluating the efficiency of the RM strategy vs. SC in the context of French healthcare.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Randomized controlled trials, comparing RM to SC in patients implanted with ICDs with or without resynchronization therapy (±CRT-D), were identified through a systematic search of scientific literature databases dating from 2005. Seventeen trials (10 229 patients) reporting data on clinical outcomes, quality of life, cost, and/or utility, either as primary or secondary endpoints were identified. Compared to SC, RM resulted in significant reductions in annual costs per patient for direct healthcare costs (seven studies, difference in means -276.1, 95% standard error [SE]: 66.0, I2 = 76.3%) and for labour costs (two studies, difference in means -11.3, 95% SE: 1.4, I2 = 96.3%). A three-state Markov Model showed that RM resulted in cost-savings of €4142 per patient over a 5-year time horizon, with a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain of 0.29. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was -14 136 €/QALY, in favour of RM. Furthermore, probabilistic sensitivity analyses confirmed that the RM strategy was dominant over SC in 70% of cases.
CONCLUSION: Our economic model demonstrates that once implemented, RM of ICD ± CRT-D patients would result in increased effectiveness for lower costs over a 5-year period, compared to the current SC in France.
Label Included: 0

Title: Early Lessons From World War COVID Reinventing Our Stroke Systems of Care.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Development of a health technology assessment module for evaluating mobile medical applications.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop a module which could be used to facilitate the assessment of mobile medical applications (MMA) for regulatory and reimbursement purposes.
METHODS: In-depth interviews were conducted with policymakers, healthcare practitioners, and application developers to determine possible pathways and impediments to MMA reimbursement. These findings were integrated with our previous research on MMA reimbursement and regulation to create a module that could be used with existing health technology assessment (HTA) methodological frameworks to guide the evaluation of MMAs.
RESULTS: Stakeholders indicated that they trust how traditional medical devices are currently appraised for reimbursement. They were concerned that there was a lack of clarity regarding which entity in the health system was responsible for determining app quality. They were also concerned about the digital health literacy of medical practitioners and patients. Concepts emerging from our previous research were reinforced by the interview findings, including that the connectivity and cybersecurity of apps need to be considered, along with an assessment of software reliability. It is also critical that the credibility of the information presented in apps is assessed as it could potentially mislead patients and clinicians.
CONCLUSION: An MMA evaluation module was created that would enable an existing HTA process to be adapted for the assessment of MMA technology. These adaptations include making provisions for an assessment of app cybersecurity, the impact on MMA clinical utility of software updates, and compatibility issues. Items to address concerns around practitioner responsibility and app misinformation were also incorporated into the module.
Label Included: 0

Title: Healthcare Data Breaches: Insights and Implications.
Abstract: The Internet of Medical Things, Smart Devices, Information Systems, and Cloud Services have led to a digital transformation of the healthcare industry. Digital healthcare services have paved the way for easier and more accessible treatment, thus making our lives far more comfortable. However, the present day healthcare industry has also become the main victim of external as well as internal attacks. Data breaches are not just a concern and complication for security experts; they also affect clients, stakeholders, organizations, and businesses. Though the data breaches are of different types, their impact is almost always the same. This study provides insights into the various categories of data breaches faced by different organizations. The main objective is to do an in-depth analysis of healthcare data breaches and draw inferences from them, thereby using the findings to improve healthcare data confidentiality. The study found that hacking/IT incidents are the most prevalent forms of attack behind healthcare data breaches, followed by unauthorized internal disclosures. The frequency of healthcare data breaches, magnitude of exposed records, and financial losses due to breached records are increasing rapidly. Data from the healthcare industry is regarded as being highly valuable. This has become a major lure for the misappropriation and pilferage of healthcare data. Addressing this anomaly, the present study employs the simple moving average method and the simple exponential soothing method of time series analysis to examine the trend of healthcare data breaches and their cost. Of the two methods, the simple moving average method provided more reliable forecasting results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Epidemiological and Economic Evaluation of a Pilot Prostate Cancer Screening Program.
Abstract: Background. Prostate cancer (PCa) is the second most commonly diagnosed cancer, and the sixth most common killer among men worldwide (Aubry et al., 2013). This research was motivated by the fact that PCa screening continues to be a controversial topic in the Kazakh medical community. This study aimed at description of how newly diagnosed PCa patients are managed in Pavlodar region of the Kazakhstan Republic and at presentation of a budget impact analysis (BIA) for PCa screening program. Also, we aimed to provide a comparative analysis of pricing system on medical services applied in both private and public healthcare sectors of the Kazakhstan Republic. Methods. New cases of PCa have been retrospectively analyzed for the period from January 2013 to December 2017 based on the information obtained from information system "Policlinic" maintained by the Pavlodar regional branch of the Republican Center for Electronic Health and from Cancer Registry of Pavlodar Regional Oncology Center. All data were analyzed with the help of SPSS 20.0 software. Results. The mean age of PCa patients was 68.34 years (SD = 8.559). The government of Kazakhstan invested 20,437,000 KZT (Kazakhstani tenge) in 2017 equivalently 61,188 USD-to fund a pilot study for examination of 9638 men. From 2013 to 2017, out of 49,334 men residing in Pavlodar region of Kazakhstan 1,248 men were diagnosed with prostate diseases, including 130 PCa cases. The PCa detection rate was equal to two cases per month. Only 22.8% of all PCa cases identified in the region within specified time period were revealed as a result of the government-funded PCa screening program. The average prostate cancer detection rate among the target group of Pavlodar region within the period of 5 years was equal to 0.23%. Conclusion. Based on the fact that the PCa screening program failed to enable adequate detection of new PCa cases, we would not recommend to continue this type of screening unless it is undergone careful revision and replanning.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemonitoring Versus Usual Care for Elderly Patients With Heart Failure Discharged From the Hospital in the United States: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemonitoring-guided interventional management reduces the need for hospitalization and mortality of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF).
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to analyze the cost-effectiveness of usual care with and without telemonitoring-guided management in patients with CHF discharged from the hospital, from the perspective of US health care providers.
METHODS: A lifelong Markov model was designed to estimate outcomes of (1) usual care alone for all postdischarge patients with CHF (New York Heart Association [NYHA] class I-IV), (2) usual care and telemonitoring for all postdischarge patients with CHF, (3) usual care for all postdischarge patients with CHF and telemonitoring for patients with NYHA class III to IV, and (4) usual care for all postdischarge patients with CHF plus telemonitoring for patients with NYHA class II to IV. Model inputs were derived from the literature and public data. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of model. The primary outcomes were total direct medical cost, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, universal telemonitoring group gained the highest QALYs (6.2967 QALYs), followed by the telemonitoring for NYHA class II to IV group (6.2960 QALYs), the telemonitoring for NYHA class III to IV group (6.2450 QALYs), and the universal usual care group (6.1530 QALYs). ICERs of the telemonitoring for NYHA class III to IV group (US $35,393 per QALY) and the telemonitoring for NYHA class II to IV group (US $38,261 per QALY) were lower than the ICER of the universal telemonitoring group (US $100,458 per QALY). One-way sensitivity analysis identified five critical parameters: odds ratio of hospitalization for telemonitoring versus usual care, hazard ratio of all-cause mortality for telemonitoring versus usual care, CHF hospitalization cost and monthly outpatient costs for NYHA class I, and CHF hospitalization cost for NYHA class II. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, probabilities of the universal telemonitoring, telemonitoring for NYHA class II to IV, telemonitoring for NYHA class III to IV, and universal usual care groups to be accepted as cost-effective at US $50,000 per QALY were 2.76%, 76.31%, 18.6%, and 2.33%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Usual care for all discharged patients with CHF plus telemonitoring-guided management for NYHA class II to IV patients appears to be the preferred cost-effective strategy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Electronic Vetting of Imaging Requests: Increasing Productivity and Patient Safety.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Advances and future directions in the use of mobile health in supportive cancer care: proceedings of the 2019 MASCC Annual Meeting symposium.
Abstract: PURPOSE: The role of mobile health (mHealth) technology in cancer care has evolved alongside the rapid development in digital technology. Its use can come with significant potential benefits; however, such use may also be associated with risks. This paper summarizes the latest developments around mHealth use in cancer care presented by a panel of experts at the 2019 Annual Meeting of the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer.
METHODS: Through lectures, case studies, and panel discussions, speakers and participants (including cancer specialist doctors, nurses, and allied health professionals) evaluated current and emerging mHealth methods for supportive care in cancer survivorship. Focus areas and special considerations were agreed upon by consensus.
RESULTS: Three focus areas for the use of mHealth in cancer care were identified: activation and support of self-management, exercise oncology, and enablement of survivorship care delivery. In addition to these focus areas, two special considerations were highlighted: technology-enhanced supportive cancer care for disparate populations, and ethical considerations relevant to the use of technology in supportive care.
CONCLUSION: mHealth has the potential to revolutionize and transform cancer care delivery. Future research should guide further advances in the use of technology in supportive cancer care and carefully explore the safety, efficacy, cost-effectiveness, and implementation of interventions delivered through mHealth platforms.
Label Included: 0

Title: The burden of cost in inflammatory bowel disease: a medical economic perspective.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The cost of care for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has nearly doubled over the last two decades. With evolving treatment paradigms utilizing costly but efficacious biologic agents earlier and more often, the cost burden is only expected to worsen. The purpose of this review is to explore the current economic landscape and drivers of IBD healthcare costs along with potential mechanisms for improving value and cost-effectiveness of IBD care.
RECENT FINDINGS: The prevalence of IBD continues to rapidly expand with costs following suit. As compensation models change, the medical community is more incentivized than ever to develop cost reduction strategies including incorporation of high-value care measures, cooperative data aggregation, and technological solutions, with many of these interventions demonstrating promising results.
SUMMARY: IBD is an expensive chronic disease with payments only expected to rise. In light of this financial conundrum, new practice models, such as the IBD specialty medical home and remote telemedicine, are being tested with an emphasis on cost reduction. Many of these strategies are demonstrating improved patient outcomes while also curbing expenses. These early successes set the stage for continued cooperation, collaboration, and growth in value-based management of IBD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Upscaling e-mental health in Europe: a six-country qualitative analysis and policy recommendations from the eMEN project.
Abstract: E-mental health (eMH) encompasses the use of digital technologies to deliver, support, or enhance mental health services. Despite the growing evidence for the effectiveness of eMH interventions, the process of implementation of eMH solutions in healthcare remains slow throughout Europe. To address this issue, the e-Mental Health Innovation and Transnational Implementation Platform North-West Europe (eMEN) project was initiated to increase the dissemination and quality of eMH services in Europe. In this project, status analyses regarding eMH in the six participating countries (i.e., Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, The Netherlands, and the UK) were conducted and eight recommendations for eMH were developed. Expert teams from the six participating countries conducted status analyses regarding the uptake of eMH based on a narrative literature review and stakeholder interviews. Based on these status analyses, the eMEN consortium developed eight policy recommendations to further support the implementation of eMH in Europe. The status analyses showed that the participating countries are in different stages of implementing eMH into mental healthcare. Some barriers to implementing eMH were common among countries (e.g., a limited legal and regulatory framework), while others were country-specific (e.g., fragmented, federal policies). The policy recommendations included fostering awareness, creating strong political commitment, and setting reliable standards related to ethics and data security. The eMEN project has provided the initial recommendations to guide political and regulatory processes regarding eMH. Further research is needed to establish well-tailored implementation strategies and to assess the generalizability of the recommendations beyond the countries involved in the eMEN project.
Label Included: 0

Title: Long-Term Institutional Experience With Telemedicine Services for Radiation Oncology: A Potential Model for Long-Term Utilization.
Abstract: PURPOSE: With the development of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, health care practices and radiation oncology departments have begun to incorporate telemedicine services to practice social distancing and minimize the chances of disease spread. Given the severity of this pandemic, it will likely fundamentally affect the use of these services for years to come. Our institution and radiation oncology department have used telemedicine services for many years; we would like to report on our departmental experience to guide other radiation oncology practices on its long-term use for clinical evaluation and patient care.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Our institution's telemedicine program provides clinical services for a number of remote locations and represents the largest telehealth network in the world, with over 300 sites and 60,000 patient encounters a year.
RESULTS: Specifically for our radiation oncology department, over 200 patient encounters occur via telemedicine a year. Patients report great appreciation and satisfaction with these encounters, as they eliminate the time and energy needed for travel from long distances. It has resulted in improved efficiency and cost-effectiveness as well.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our institutional experience, our long-term vision for telemedicine (after COVID-19 pandemic has hopefully subsided) is as an excellent and cost-efficient tool to provide long-term follow-up for patients, especially for those who live far away in rural or underserved areas.
Label Included: 0

Title: Operative Delay in Adults with Appendicitis: Time is Money.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Evidence suggests that operative delay of up to 24 h is not associated with adverse outcomes among patients undergoing emergent appendectomy. However, the fiscal implication of operative delay is not well described in adults. We sought to examine the effect of delayed appendectomy on clinical outcomes and hospital cost.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of patients undergoing nonelective laparoscopic appendectomy from 2014 to 2018 at both a tertiary care center and an affiliated short-stay hospital. Using a unique data set constructed from merged electronic health record and patient-level hospital financial data, patients with delayed surgery, defined as >12 h from emergency department (ED) arrival to operation, were compared with patients who underwent surgery within 12 h. Patient-specific variables were analyzed for their association with resource utilization, and subsequent multivariable linear regression was performed for total hospital cost.
RESULTS: 1372 patients underwent laparoscopic appendectomy during the study period. 938 patients (68.3%) underwent surgery within 12 h of ED arrival, and 434 patients (31.6%) underwent delayed surgery. Delayed cases had longer length of stay (44.6 ± 42.5 versus 34.5 ± 36.5 h, P < 0.01) and increased total hospital cost ($9326 ± 4691 versus $8440 ± 3404, P < 0.01). The cost difference persisted on multivariable analysis (P < 0.01). There were no significant differences between delayed cases and nondelayed cases for operative time, intraoperative findings, including rate of perforation, or postoperative complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Although safe, delayed appendectomy is associated with an increased length of stay and increased total hospital costs compared with appendectomy within 12 h of reaching the ED.
Label Included: 0

Title: Rationale, considerations, and goals for atrial fibrillation centers of excellence: A Heart Rhythm Society perspective.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient Satisfaction Following Intrathecal Targeted Drug Delivery for Benign Chronic Pain: Results of a Single-Center Survey Study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Targeted Drug Delivery (TDD) is commonly used for the management of patients with intractable pain. Past studies have proven efficacy in pain relief and reduction in opioid use and cost-effectiveness in long-term pain management. There are few studies investigating satisfaction among patients with implanted pain pumps that are managed with targeted intrathecal medications.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Patients in a single medical practice implanted with pain pumps for relief of intractable pain were identified and extracted from the electronic health record (EHR). Six hundred and ten active TDD patients were identified and an anonymous 18-question survey was administered to determine satisfaction with TDD therapy. During an 18-month period from May 2018 to August 2019, patients were invited to take a satisfaction survey. Both primary and secondary outcomes were reported as proportions; P < 0.05 was considered significant.
RESULTS: Four hundred and forty-three patients (74% of the active pump population) completed the survey. The majority of patients reported improvement in pain, improvement of physical function, improvement in quality of life and reduction in opioid use. Complete discontinuation of oral opioid intake was reported in 38.9% of patients. The majority of patients had a 40 cc reservoir implanted in an upper buttock pocket site and overall, 91% of patients were happy with pump pocket location.
CONCLUSION: Intrathecal TDD therapy can relieve pain and improve quality of life in patients with intractable pain and offers a reasonable alternative to long-term oral or skin patch opioid management. Patients utilizing TDD therapy reported high degrees of satisfaction.
Label Included: 0

Title: Assessing the incremental costs and savings of introducing electronic immunization registries and stock management systems: evidence from the better immunization data initiative in Tanzania and Zambia.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Poor data quality and use have been identified as key challenges that negatively impact immunization programs in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). In addition, many LMICs have a shortage of health personnel, and staff available have demanding workloads across several health programs. In order to address these challenges, the Better Immunization Data (BID) Initiative introduced a comprehensive suite of interventions, including an electronic immunization registry aimed at improving the quality, reliability, and use of immunization data in Arusha Region, Tanzania, and Southern Province of Zambia. The objective of this study was to assess the incremental costs of implementing the BID interventions in immunization programs in these two countries.
METHODS: We conducted a micro-costing study to estimate the economic costs of service delivery and logistics for the immunization programs with and without the BID interventions in a sample of health facilities and district program offices in each country. Structured questionnaires were used to interview immunization program staff at baseline and post-intervention to assess annual resource utilization and costs. Cost outcomes were reported as annual cost per facility, cost per district and changes in resource costs due to the BID interventions (i.e., costs associated with health worker time, start-up costs, etc.). Sub-group analyses were conducted by health facility to assess variation in costs by volume served and location (rural versus urban). One-way sensitivity analyses were conducted to identify influential parameters. Costs were reported in 2017 US dollars.
RESULTS: In Tanzania, the average annual reduction in resource costs was estimated at US$10,236 (95% confidence interval: $7,606-$14,123) per health facility, while the average annual reduction in resource costs per district was estimated at $6,542. In Zambia, reductions in resource costs were modest at an estimated annual average of $628 (95% confidence interval: $209-$1,467) per health facility and $236 per district. Resource cost reductions were mainly attributable to reductions in time required for immunization service delivery and reporting. One-way sensitivity analyses identified key cost drivers, all related to reductions in health worker time.
CONCLUSION: The introduction of electronic immunization registries and stock management systems through the BID Initiative was estimated to result in potential time savings in both countries. Health worker time was the area most impacted by the interventions, suggesting that time savings gained could be utilized for patient care. Information generated through this work provides evidence to inform stakeholder decision-making for scale-up of the BID interventions in Tanzania and Zambia and to inform other Low-to-Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) interested in similar interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: COVID-19 Pandemic and Beyond: Considerations and Costs of Telehealth Exercise Programs for Older Adults With Functional Impairments Living at Home-Lessons Learned From a Pilot Case Study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to describe the process and cost of delivering a physical therapist-guided synchronous telehealth exercise program appropriate for older adults with functional limitations. Such programs may help alleviate some of the detrimental impacts of social distancing and quarantine on older adults at-risk of decline.
METHODS: Data were derived from the feasibility arm of a parent study, which piloted the telehealth program for 36 sessions with 1 participant. The steps involved in each phase (ie, development, delivery) were documented, along with participant and program provider considerations for each step. Time-driven activity-based costing was used to track all costs over the course of the study. Costs were categorized as program development or delivery and estimated per session and per participant.
RESULTS: A list of the steps and the participant and provider considerations involved in developing and delivering a synchronous telehealth exercise program for older adults with functional impairments was developed. Resources used, fixed and variable costs, per-session cost estimates, and total cost per person were reported. Two potential measures of the "value proposition" of this type of intervention were also reported. Per-session cost of $158 appeared to be a feasible business case, especially if the physical therapist to trained assistant personnel mix could be improved.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings provide insight into the process and costs of developing and delivering telehealth exercise programs for older adults with functional impairments. The information presented may provide a "blue print" for developing and implementing new telehealth programs or for transitioning in-person services to telehealth delivery during periods of social distancing and quarantine.
IMPACT: As movement experts, physical therapists are uniquely positioned to play an important role in the current COVID-19 pandemic and to help individuals who are at risk of functional decline during periods of social distancing and quarantine. Lessons learned from this study's experience can provide guidance on the process and cost of developing and delivering a telehealth exercise program for older adults with functional impairments. The findings also can inform new telehealth programs, as well as assist in transitioning in-person care to a telehealth format in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Label Included: 0

Title: A stepped wedge trial of efficacy and scalability of a virtual clinical pharmacy service (VCPS) in rural and remote NSW health facilities.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Medication errors are a leading cause of mortality and morbidity. Clinical pharmacy services provided in hospital can reduce medication errors and medication related harm. However, few rural or remote hospitals in Australia have a clinical pharmacy service. This study will evaluate a virtual clinical pharmacy service (VCPS) provided via telehealth to eight rural and remote hospitals in NSW, Australia.
METHODS: A stepped wedge cluster randomised trial design will use routinely collected data from patients' electronic medical records (n = 2080) to evaluate the VCPS at eight facilities. The sequence of steps is randomised, allowing for control of potential confounding temporal trends. Primary outcomes are number of medication reconciliations completed on admission and discharge. Secondary outcomes are length of stay, falls and 28 day readmissions. A cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) and cost-benefit analysis (CBA) will be conducted. The CEA will answer the question of whether the VCPS is more cost-effective compared to treatment as usual; the CBA will consider the rate of return on investing in the VCPS. A patient experience measure (n = 500) and medication adherence questionnaire (n = 100 pre and post) will also be used to identify patient responses to the virtual service. Focus groups will investigate implementation from hospital staff perspectives at each site. Analyses of routine data will comprise generalised linear mixed models. Descriptive statistical analysis will summarise patient experience responses. Differences in medication adherence will be compared using linear regression models. Thematic analysis of focus groups will identify barriers and facilitators to VCPS implementation.
DISCUSSION: We aim to demonstrate the effectiveness of virtual pharmacy interventions for rural populations, and inform best practice for using virtual healthcare to improve access to pharmacy services. It is widely recognised that clinical pharmacists are best placed to reduce medication errors. However, pharmacy services are limited in rural and remote hospitals. This project will provide evidence about ways in which the benefits of hospital pharmacists can be maximised utilising telehealth technology. If successful, this project can provide a model for pharmacy delivery in rural and remote locations.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR) -ACTRN12619001757101 Prospectively registered on 11 December 2019. Record available from: https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=378878&isReview=true.
Label Included: 0

Title: An Application of Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing in an Interventional Radiology Practice.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Complementary music therapy for cancer patients in at-home palliative care and their caregivers: protocol for a multicentre randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced cancer, receiving at-home palliative care, are subject to numerous symptoms that are changeable and often require attention, a stressful situation that also impacts on the family caregiver. It has been suggested that music therapy may benefit both the patient and the caregiver. We propose a study to analyse the efficacy and cost utility of a music intervention programme, applied as complementary therapy, for cancer patients in palliative care and for their at-home caregivers, compared to usual treatment.
METHOD: A randomised, double-blind, multicentre clinical trial will be performed in cancer patients in at-home palliative care and their family caregivers. The study population will include two samples of 40 patients and two samples of 41 caregivers. Participants will be randomly assigned either to the intervention group or to the control group. The intervention group will receive a seven-day programme including music sessions, while the control group will receive seven sessions of (spoken word) therapeutic education. In this study, the primary outcome measure is the assessment of patients' symptoms, according to the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System, and of the overload experienced by family caregivers, measured by the Caregiver Strain Index. The secondary outcomes considered will be the participants' health-related quality of life, their satisfaction with the intervention, and an economic valuation.
DISCUSSION: This study is expected to enhance our understanding of the efficacy and cost-utility of music therapy for cancer patients in palliative care and for their family caregivers. The results of this project are expected to be applicable and transferrable to usual clinical practice for patients in home palliative care and for their caregivers. The approach described can be incorporated as an additional therapeutic resource within comprehensive palliative care. To our knowledge, no previous high quality studies, based on a double-blind clinical trial, have been undertaken to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of music therapy. The cost-effectiveness of the project will provide information to support decision making, thereby improving the management of health resources and their use within the health system.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The COMTHECARE study is registered at Clinical Trials.gov, NCT04052074. Registered 9 August, 2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Clinical and Cost-Effectiveness of Telerehabilitation for People With Nonspecific Chronic Low Back Pain: Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telerehabilitation can facilitate multidisciplinary management for people with nonspecific chronic low back pain (NCLBP). It provides health care access to individuals who are physically and economically disadvantaged.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of telerehabilitation compared with a clinic-based intervention for people with NCLBP in Nigeria.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis alongside a randomized controlled trial from a health care perspective was conducted. Patients with NCLBP were assigned to either telerehabilitation-based McKenzie therapy (TBMT) or clinic-based McKenzie therapy (CBMT). Interventions were carried out 3 times weekly for a period of 8 weeks. Patients' level of disability was measured using the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) at baseline, week 4, and week 8. To estimate the health-related quality of life of the patients, the ODI was mapped to the short-form six dimensions instrument to generate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Health care resource use and costs were assessed based on the McKenzie extension protocol in Nigeria in 2019. Descriptive and inferential data analyses were also performed to assess the clinical effectiveness of the interventions. Bootstrapping was conducted to generate the point estimate of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: A total of 47 patients (TBMT, n=21 and CBMT, n=26), with a mean age of 47 (SD 11.6) years for telerehabilitation and 50 (SD 10.7) years for the clinic-based intervention, participated in this study. The mean cost estimates of TBMT and CBMT interventions per person were 22,200 naira (US $61.7) and 38,200 naira (US $106), respectively. QALY gained was 0.085 for TBMT and 0.084 for CBMT. The TBMT arm was associated with an additional 0.001 QALY (95% CI 0.001 to 0.002) per participant compared with the CBMT arm. Thus, the ICER showed that the TBMT arm was less costly and more effective than the CBMT arm.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of the study suggested that telerehabilitation for people with NCLBP was cost saving. Given the small number of participants in this study, further examination of effects and costs of the interventions is needed within a larger sample size. In addition, future studies are required to assess the cost-effectiveness of this intervention in the long term from the patient and societal perspective.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telescopic otology referrals: Evaluation of feasibility and acceptability.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: A remote telemedical otology referral and advice service was introduced to interested general practices. General practitioners (GPs) were given a new device, "endoscope-i" that combines an optimized smartphone high definition video app with an otoendoscope. They were specifically trained to examine and capture images of patients' eardrums, which were sent electronically with a summary of clinical information and an in-app hearing testing (if required), for specialist advice to two ear, nose, and throat (ENT) consultants. We describe the findings from an evaluation of the first 6 months of this service to establish the feasibility and acceptability of an otology telemedical referral and advice service.
METHODS: The new service was advertised to GP practices in Northern Staffordshire. All interested GPs were provided with training and equipment to deliver the remote referral service. Data were collected from GPs at baseline, informal feedback in response to referral outcomes and end of service feedback. Referral data were collected routinely during the service delivery.
RESULTS: Fifteen GP leads from 15 practices received training and equipment. One quickly lost the equipment. Of the remaining 14 practices, eight sent a total of 53 remote referrals using this technology over 6 months. The most common reason for referral was an uncertainty of what could be seen in or around the eardrum. The primary barrier for implementation was lack of wireless internet connections within practices. GPs reported that they used this technology to share examination findings with patients.
CONCLUSIONS: GPs were positive about the technology, from initial engagement with training and after advice were given. Some GPs expanded the role of the technology to a consultation aid. Referral volume was manageable. Commissioners should consider tariffs structures for such services; empirical cost-effectiveness and workload-impact evaluation would inform this.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Telemedicine-directed Specialized vs Standard Care for Patients With Inflammatory Bowel Diseases in a Randomized Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND & AIMS: Telemedicine can be used to monitor determinants and outcomes of patients with chronic diseases, possibly increasing the quality and value of care. Telemedicine was found to reduce outpatient visits and hospital admissions for patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). We performed a full economic evaluation of telemedicine interventions in patients with IBD, comparing the cost-utility of telemedicine vs standard care.
METHODS: We performed a randomized trial of 909 patients with IBD at 2 academic and 2 non-academic hospitals in The Netherlands. Patients were randomly assigned to groups that received telemedicine (myIBDcoach; n = 465) or standard outpatient care (n = 444) and followed for 12 months. Costs were measured from a societal perspective. Direct healthcare costs were based on actual resource use. Indirect costs comprised self-reported hours sick leave from work, intervention costs (annual license fee of €40 per patient [$45]), and utility costs (assessed using EQ5D). Cost-utility and uncertainty were estimated using the non-parametric bootstrapping method.
RESULTS: Telemedicine resulted in lower mean annual costs of €547/patient [$612] (95% CI, €1029-2143 [$1150-2393]; mean costs of €9481 [$10,587] for standard care and €8924 [$9965] for telemedicine) without changing quality adjusted life years. At the Dutch threshold of €80,000 [$89,335] per quality adjusted life year, the intervention had increased incremental cost-effectiveness over standard care in 83% of replications and an incremental net monetary benefit of €707/patient [$790] (95% CI, €1241-2544 [$1386-2841]).
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine with myIBDcoach is cost saving and has a high probability of being cost effective for patients with IBD. This self-management tool enables continuous registration of quality indicators and (patient-reported) outcomes and might help reorganize IBD care toward value-based healthcare. ClinicalTrials.gov no: NCT02173002.
Label Included: 1

Title: Cardio-Oncology Care in the Time of COVID-19 and the Role of Telehealth.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Hypertension Subtypes among Thai Hypertensives: An Analysis of Telehealth-Assisted Instrument in Home Blood Pressure Monitoring Nationwide Pilot Project.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: White-coat hypertension (HT), masked HT, HT with white-coat effect, and masked uncontrolled HT are well-recognized problems of over- and undertreatment of high blood pressure in real-life practice. However, little is known about the true prevalence in Thailand.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the prevalence and characteristics of each HT subtype defined by mean home blood pressure (HBP) and clinic blood pressure (CBP) using telemonitoring technology in Thai hypertensives.
METHODS: A multicenter, observational study included adult hypertensives who had been diagnosed for at least 3 months based on CBP without the adoption of HBP monitoring. All patients were instructed to manually measure their HBP twice a day for the duration of at least one week using the same validated automated, oscillometric telemonitoring devices (Uright model TD-3128, TaiDoc Corporation, Taiwan). The HBP, CBP, and baseline demographic data were recorded on the web-based system. HT subtypes were classified according to the treatment status, CBP (≥or <140/90 mmHg), and mean HBP (≥or <135/85 mmHg) into the following eight subtypes: in nonmedicated hypertensives, there are four subtypes that are normotension, white-coat HT, masked HT, and sustained HT; in treated hypertensives, there are four subtypes that are well-controlled HT, HT with white-coat effect, masked uncontrolled HT, and sustained HT.
RESULTS: Of the 1,184 patients (mean age 58 ± 12.7 years, 59% women) from 46 hospitals, 1,040 (87.8%) were taking antihypertensive agents. The majority of them were enrolled from primary care hospitals (81%). In the nonmedicated group, the prevalence of white-coat and masked HT was 25.7% and 7.0%, respectively. Among the treated patients, the HT with white-coat effect was found in 23.3% while 46.7% had uncontrolled HBP (a combination of the masked uncontrolled HT (9.6%) and sustained HT (37.1%)). In the medicated older subgroup (n = 487), uncontrolled HBP was more prevalent in male than in female (53.6% vs. 42.4%, p=0.013).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first nationwide study in Thailand to examine the prevalence of HT subtypes. Almost one-fourth had white-coat HT or HT with white-coat effect. Approximately half of the treated patients especially in the older males had uncontrolled HBP requiring more intensive interventions. These results emphasize the role of HBP monitoring for appropriate HT diagnosis and management. The cost-effectiveness of utilizing THAI HBPM in routine practice needs to be examined in the future study.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Assessment of teleradiology patients in a major regional hospital].
Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate teleradiology examinations regarding the most frequently requested exams and examined body regions. Additionally, the frequency of pathological changes depending on the examined region and clinical situation as well as the time profile for requesting teleradiology (daytime, day of the week) were analyzed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective analysis of all consecutive teleradiology exams in 2018 that were reported in the radiology department of a major regional hospital and scanned in three referring primary health care institutions regarding clinical history, working diagnosis and requested body region was performed. Additionally, the date and time of the examination were analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 1207 CT (computer tomography) scans that were reported as part of the teleradiology agreement were included. The most frequently requested examination was a cranial CT (77.9%) with 14.6% pathological findings, followed by abdominal CT (14%) with 63.9% pathological changes, spine/extremities (8.8%) with 50% pathological changes and CT of the chest (7.9%) with 53.7% abnormal scans. Most teleradiology requests were referred on weekends between 8 am and 4 pm, followed by 4 pm to 6 pm on weekdays. The smallest number of scans was requested between 2 am and 4 am.
CONCLUSION: Most teleradiology CT requests focus on brain examinations, followed by abdominal CT, CT of the spine and extremities and CT chest. Most cranial CTs do not show an acute pathology, while abdominal CTs had the highest rate of pathological findings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of stratified blended physiotherapy in patients with non-specific low back pain: study protocol of a cluster randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patient education, advice on returning to normal activities and (home-based) exercise therapy are established treatment options for patients with non-specific low back pain (LBP). However, the effectiveness of physiotherapy interventions on physical functioning and prevention of recurrent events largely depends on patient self-management, adherence to prescribed (home-based) exercises and recommended physical activity behaviour. Therefore we have developed e-Exercise LBP, a blended intervention in which a smartphone application is integrated within face-to-face care. E-Exercise LBP aims to improve patient self-management skills and adherence to exercise and physical activity recommendations and consequently improve the effectiveness of physiotherapy on patients' physical functioning. The aim of this study is to investigate the short- (3 months) and long-term (12 and 24 months) effectiveness on physical functioning and cost-effectiveness of e-Exercise LBP in comparison to usual primary care physiotherapy in patients with LBP.
METHODS: This paper presents the protocol of a prospective, multicentre cluster randomized controlled trial. In total 208 patients with LBP pain were treated with either e-Exercise LBP or usual care physiotherapy. E-Exercise LBP is stratified based on the risk for developing persistent LBP. Physiotherapists are able to monitor and evaluate treatment progress between face-to-face sessions using patient input from the smartphone application in order to optimize physiotherapy care. The smartphone application contains video-supported self-management information, video-supported exercises and a goal-oriented physical activity module. The primary outcome is physical functioning at 12-months follow-up. Secondary outcomes include pain intensity, physical activity, adherence to prescribed (home-based) exercises and recommended physical activity behaviour, self-efficacy, patient activation and health-related quality of life. All measurements will be performed at baseline, 3, 12 and 24 months after inclusion. An economic evaluation will be performed from the societal and the healthcare perspective and will assess cost-effectiveness of e-Exercise LBP compared to usual physiotherapy at 12 and 24 months.
DISCUSSION: A multi-phase development and implementation process using the Center for eHealth Research Roadmap for the participatory development of eHealth was used for development and evaluation. The findings will provide evidence on the effectiveness of blended care for patients with LBP and help to enhance future implementation of blended physiotherapy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN, ISRCTN94074203. Registered 20 July 2018 - Retrospectively registered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy, patient-doctor relationship, costs and benefits of utilizing telepsychiatry for the management of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD): a systematic review.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is one of the most common psychiatric disorders found among victims of disaster, kidnapping, accidents, sexual assaults and war in Indonesia. However, lacking and unequal distribution of psychiatric medical personnel remains a barrier to its management. This review aims to introduce and evaluate the potential contribution of telepsychiatry to the management of PTSD based on published literature.
METHODS: Original studies were obtained from PubMed, Science Direct, ProQuest, High Wire, and Elsevier Clinical Key databases.
RESULTS: A total of 125 articles were found, of which 15 articles (12 randomized controlled trials, 2 open trials and 1 pilot study) fulfilled the inclusion criteria. A total of 991 subjects were found with a follow-up period ranging between 5 weeks and 18 months. Telepsychiatry is an innovative use of technology to aid the delivery of PTSD treatments in areas difficult to reach. The quality of care given by telepsychiatry both through video conferencing as well as web- and application-based is comparable to that of face-to-face therapy. Patient satisfaction, quality of doctor-patient relationship also remains high, with lower costs and shorter therapeutic time when compared to face-to-face therapy.
CONCLUSION: Various studies have shown that telepsychiatry is an effective solution for the management of PTSD. Studies have also reported that the quality of treatment through telepsychiatry is as effective as face-to-face therapy, with greater efficiency. Countries, especially those with a low patient-to-mental health professional ratio, should be encouraged to develop telepsychiatry systems to manage PTSD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of Smart Technology for the Early Diagnosis of Complications After Cardiac Surgery: The Box 2.0 Study Protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF), sternal wound infection, and cardiac decompensation are complications that can occur after cardiac surgery. Early detection of these complications is clinically relevant, as early treatment is associated with better clinical outcomes. Remote monitoring with the use of a smartphone (mobile health [mHealth]) might improve the early detection of complications after cardiac surgery.
OBJECTIVE: The primary aim of this study is to compare the detection rate of AF diagnosed with an mHealth solution to the detection rate of AF diagnosed with standard care. Secondary objectives include detection of sternal wound infection and cardiac decompensation, as well as assessment of quality of life, patient satisfaction, and cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: The Box 2.0 is a study with a prospective intervention group and a historical control group for comparison. Patients undergoing cardiac surgery at Leiden University Medical Center are eligible for enrollment. In this study, 365 historical patients will be used as controls and 365 other participants will be asked to receive either The Box 2.0 intervention consisting of seven home measurement devices along with a video consultation 2 weeks after discharge or standard cardiac care for 3 months. Patient information will be analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle. The Box 2.0 devices include a blood pressure monitor, thermometer, weight scale, step count watch, single-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) device, 12-lead ECG device, and pulse oximeter.
RESULTS: The study started in November 2018. The primary outcome of this study is the detection rate of AF in both groups. Quality of life is measured with the five-level EuroQol five-dimension (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire. Cost-effectiveness is calculated from a society perspective using prices from Dutch costing guidelines and quality of life data from the study. In the historical cohort, 93.9% (336/358) completed the EQ-5D-5L and patient satisfaction questionnaires 3 months after cardiac surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: The rationale and design of a study to investigate mHealth devices in postoperative cardiac surgery patients are presented. The first results are expected in September 2020.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03690492; http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT03690492.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/16326.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of medication review via tele-expertise on unplanned hospitalizations at 3 months of nursing homes patients (TEM-EHPAD): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Inappropriate drug prescribing causes preventable drug-related adverse events that result in increased morbidity and mortality, additional costs and diminished quality of life. Numerous initiatives have been launched to improve the quality of drug prescribing and safeguard the security of drug administration processes in nursing homes. Against the backdrop of implementation of telemedicine services, the focus of the present work is to evaluate the impact of a telemedication review carried out by a hospital physician and pharmacist as part of the telemedicine offer.
METHODS: The present study is a randomized controlled clinical trial. A total of 364 patients will be randomized into two groups: (1) an experimental group (182 patients) benefiting from a telemedication review using tele-expertise and (2) a control group (182 patients) receiving standard care. The primary endpoint will be rate of all-cause unplanned hospital admissions occurring within 3 months of randomization. The secondary endpoints will be rate of unplanned admissions at 6 months, patient quality of life, incidence of behavioral disturbances, number of falls, number of residents prescribed at least one inappropriate medication, nursing staff satisfaction, proposed medication reviews and their acceptability rate, characteristics of patients whose general practitioners have taken account of tele-expertise, efficacy of tele-expertise as compared to standard prescription and acceptability and satisfaction surveys of participating caregivers.
DISCUSSION: In the literature, various studies have investigated the utility of structured medication review processes, but outcome measures are heterogeneous, and results vary widely. Medication review can detect medication-related problems in many patients, but evidence of clinical impact is scant. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios will be used to compare the cost and effectiveness of the experimental strategy and that of standard care. Our approach, involving the combination of an acceptability survey and a mixed-method (qualitative and quantitative) satisfaction survey, is particularly innovative. The results of this randomized trial are expected to confirm that medication review using tele-expertise has potential as a worthwhile care management strategy for nursing home residents.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT03640845; registered August 21, 2018 (Clinicaltrials.gov NCT03640845).
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telehealth in rural and remote emergency departments: a systematic review protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Emergency telehealth has been used to improve accessibility of rural and remote patients to specialist care. Evidence to date has demonstrated effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telehealth in rural and remote emergency departments within a variety of contexts. However, systematic reviews to date have not focused on the rural and remote emergency departments. The purpose of this study is to review the outcome measures used in evaluations of emergency telehealth in rural and remote settings and assess evidence relating to their effectiveness and cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Randomised controlled trials, non-randomised controlled trials, and full and partial economic evaluations (e.g. cost-effectiveness, cost-benefit, and cost-utility analyses) of telehealth in rural and remote emergency departments will be included. Comprehensive literature searches will be conducted in multiple electronic databases (from 1990 onwards): MEDLINE (Ovid), Cochrane Library, Scopus, CINAHL, ProQuest, EconLit, CRD databases (e.g. NHS Economic Evaluation database), and Tufts Cost-Effectiveness Registry. Two authors will independently screen all citations, full-text articles, and abstract data. The methodological quality (or risk of bias) of individual studies will be appraised using an appropriate tool. A systematic narrative synthesis will be provided with information presented in the text and tables to summarise and explain the characteristics and findings of the studies. If feasible, we will conduct random effects meta-analysis.
DISCUSSION: This review will identify gaps in the current body of evidence relating to the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of rural and remote emergency telehealth services. By confining to articles written in the English language, this analysis may be subjected to publication bias and results need to be interpreted accordingly. We believe the results of this review could be valuable for the design of future economic evaluations of emergency telehealth services implemented in the rural and remote context.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42019145903.
Label Included: 0

Title: Study on advance care planning in care dependent community-dwelling older persons in Germany (STADPLAN): protocol of a cluster-randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In Germany, advance care planning (ACP) was first introduced by law in 2015. However, ACP is still uncommon in Germany and only few people have advance directive forms. This study aims to evaluate an ACP program in care dependent community-dwelling persons, compared to optimised usual care.
METHODS: A cluster-randomised controlled trial of 12 months duration will be conducted in 3 German study sites comparing the pretested ACP-counselling offered by trained nurses with a control group receiving optimised usual care. Using external concealed randomisation, 16 home care services each will be included in the intervention and the control group (30 participants per cluster; n = 960). Eligibility criteria for patients are: ≥60 years, somehow care dependent, adequate German language skills, assumed life-expectancy of ≥4 weeks, and cognitive ability for participation. ACP will be delivered by trained nurse facilitators of the respective home care services and communication will include proxy decision-makers. The primary endpoint will be patient activation, assessed by the Patient Activation Measure (PAM-13). Secondary endpoints include ACP-engagement, proportion of prepared advance directives, number and duration of hospitalisations, quality of life as well as depression and anxiety. Further, comprehensive economic and process evaluations will be conducted.
DISCUSSION: STADPLAN is the first study in Germany that assesses an adapted ACP intervention with trained nurses in home care services and the first international study focusing on cost effectiveness of ACP in community-dwelling older persons. The results will help to improve the understanding and communicating of patients' preferences regarding medical treatment and care and thereby contribute to patients' autonomy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register: DRKS00016886 (Date of registration: 04.06.2019).
Label Included: 0

Title: Managing New-Onset Type 1 Diabetes During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Challenges and Opportunities.
Abstract: Background: The current COVID-19 pandemic provides an incentive to expand considerably the use of telemedicine for high-risk patients with diabetes, and especially for the management of type 1 diabetes (T1D). Telemedicine and digital medicine also offer critically important approaches to improve access, efficacy, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of medical care for people with diabetes. Methods: Two case reports are presented where telemedicine was used effectively and safely after day 1 in person patient education. These aspects of the management of new-onset T1D patients (adult and pediatric) included ongoing diabetes education of the patient and family digitally. The patients used continuous glucose monitoring with commercially available analysis software (Dexcom Clarity and Glooko) to generate ambulatory glucose profiles and interpretive summary reports. The adult subject used multiple daily insulin injections; the pediatric patient used an insulin pump. The subjects were managed using a combination of e-mail, Internet via Zoom, and telephone calls. Results: These two cases show the feasibility and effectiveness of use of telemedicine in applications in which we had not used it previously: new-onset diabetes education and insulin dosage management. Conclusions: The present case reports illustrate how telemedicine can be used safely and effectively for new-onset T1D training and education for both pediatric and adult patients and their families. The COVID-19 pandemic has acutely stimulated the expansion of the use of telemedicine and digital medicine. We conclude that telemedicine is an effective approach for the management of patients with new-onset T1D.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparative effectiveness of post-discharge strategies for hospitalized smokers: Study protocol for the Helping HAND 4 randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tobacco smoking remains the leading preventable cause of death in the US. A hospital admission provides smokers with a unique opportunity to stop smoking because it requires temporary tobacco abstinence while illness may enhance motivation to quit. Hospital interventions must continue post-discharge to increase tobacco abstinence long-term, but how best to accomplish this remains unclear. Building on two previous randomized controlled trials, each of which tested smoking cessation interventions that began in hospital and continued after discharge, this trial compares two interventions that provide sustained smoking cessation treatment after hospital discharge with the goal of improving long-term smoking cessation rates among hospitalized smokers.
METHODS/DESIGN: Helping HAND 4 is a three-site randomized controlled trial that compares the effectiveness of two active interventions for producing validated past 7-day tobacco abstinence 6 months after hospital discharge. Smokers who are admitted to three hospitals receive a standard in-hospital smoking intervention, and those who plan to quit smoking after discharge are recruited and randomly assigned to two interventions that begin at discharge, Personalized Tobacco Care Management (PTCM) or Quitline eReferral. Each lasts 3 months. At discharge, PTCM provides 8 weeks of free nicotine replacement (NRT; a participant's choice of patch, gum, lozenge, or a combination) and then proactive smoking cessation support using an automated communication platform and live contact with a tobacco treatment specialist who is based in the health care system. In the eReferral condition, a direct referral is made from the hospital electronic health record to a community-based resource, the state's telephone quitline. The quitline provides up to 8 weeks of free NRT and offers behavioral support via a series of phone calls from a trained coach. Outcomes are assessed at 1, 3, and 6 months after discharge. The study hypothesis is that PTCM will produce higher quit rates than eReferral.
DISCUSSION: Helping HAND 4 is a pragmatic trial that aims to evaluate interventions in real-world conditions. This project will give hospital systems critical evidence-based tools for meeting National Hospital Quality Measures for tobacco treatment and maximizing their ability to improve cessation rates and overall health for the millions of smokers hospitalized annually in the US.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Prospectively registered prior to start of enrollment at Clinicaltrials.gov, NCT03603496 (July 27, 2018). https://register.clinicaltrials.gov/prs/app/action/SelectProtocol?sid=S00084MJ&selectaction=Edit&uid=U00002G7&ts=2&cx=ff0oxn.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health technology assessment frameworks for eHealth: A systematic review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Traditionally, health technology assessment (HTA) focuses on assessing the impact of pharmaceutical technologies on health and care. Resources are scarce and policy makers aim to achieve effective, accessible health care. eHealth innovations are increasingly more integrated in all healthcare domains. However, how eHealth is assessed prior to its implementation in care practices is unclear. To support evidence-informed policy making, this study aimed to identify frameworks and methods for assessing eHealth's impact on health care.
METHODS: The scientific literature in five bibliographical databases was systematically reviewed. Articles were included if the study was conducted in a clinical setting, used an HTA framework and assessed an eHealth service. A systematic qualitative narrative approach was applied for analysis and reporting.
RESULTS: Twenty-one HTA frameworks were identified in twenty-three articles. All frameworks addressed outcomes related to the technical performance and functionalities of eHealth service under assessment. The majority also addressed costs (n = 19), clinical outcomes (n = 14), organizational (n = 15) and system level aspects (n = 13). Most frameworks can be classified as dimensional (n = 13), followed by staged (n = 3), hybrid (n = 3), and business modeling frameworks (n = 2). Six frameworks specified assessment outcomes and methods.
CONCLUSIONS: HTA frameworks are available for a-priori impact assessment of eHealth services. The frameworks vary in assessment outcomes, methods, and specificity. Demonstrated applicability in practice is limited. Recommendations include standardization of: (i) reporting characteristics of eHealth services, and (ii) specifying assessment outcomes and methods following a stepped-approach tailored to the functional characteristics of eHealth services. Standardization might improve the quality and comparability of eHTA assessments.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical effectiveness of a web-based peer-supported self-management intervention for relatives of people with psychosis or bipolar (REACT): online, observer-blind, randomised controlled superiority trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Relatives Education And Coping Toolkit (REACT) is an online supported self-management toolkit for relatives of people with psychosis or bipolar designed to improve access to NICE recommended information and emotional support.
AIMS: Our aim was to determine clinical and cost-effectiveness of REACT including a Resource Directory (RD), versus RD-only.
METHODS: A primarily online, observer-blind randomised controlled trial comparing REACT (including RD) with RD only (registration ISRCTN72019945). Participants were UK relatives aged > = 16, with high distress (assessed using the GHQ-28), and actively help-seeking, individually randomised, and assessed online. Primary outcome was relatives' distress (GHQ-28) at 24 weeks. Secondary outcomes were wellbeing, support, costs and user feedback.
RESULTS: We recruited 800 relatives (REACT = 399; RD only = 401) with high distress at baseline (GHQ-28 REACT mean 40.3, SD 14.6; RD only mean 40.0, SD 14.0). Median time spent online on REACT was 50.8 min (IQR 12.4-172.1) versus 0.5 min (IQR 0-1.6) on RD only. Retention to primary follow-up (24 weeks) was 75% (REACT n = 292 (73.2%); RD-only n = 307 (76.6%)). Distress decreased in both groups by 24 weeks, with no significant difference between the two groups (- 1.39, 95% CI -3.60, 0.83, p = 0.22). Estimated cost of delivering REACT was £62.27 per person and users reported finding it safe, acceptable and convenient. There were no adverse events or reported side effects.
CONCLUSIONS: REACT is an inexpensive, acceptable, and safe way to deliver NICE-recommended support for relatives. However, for highly distressed relatives it is no more effective in reducing distress (GHQ-28) than a comprehensive online resource directory.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN72019945 prospectively registered 19/11/2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: Practice Management During the COVID-19 Pandemic.
Abstract: On March 14, 2020, the Surgeon General of the United States urged a widespread cessation of all elective surgery across the country. The suddenness of this mandate and the concomitant spread of the COVID-19 virus left many hospital systems, orthopaedic practices, and patients with notable anxiety and confusion as to the near, intermediate, and long-term future of our healthcare system. As with most businesses in the United States during this time, many orthopaedic practices have been emotionally and fiscally devastated because of this crisis. Furthermore, this pandemic is occurring at a time where small and midsized orthopaedic groups are already struggling to cover practice overhead and to maintain autonomy from larger health systems. It is anticipated that many groups will experience financial demise, leading to substantial global consolidation. Because the authors represent some of the larger musculoskeletal multispecialty groups in the country, we are uniquely positioned to provide a framework with recommendations to best weather the ensuing months. We think these recommendations will allow providers and their staff to return to an infrastructure that can adjust immediately to the pent-up healthcare demand that may occur after the COVID-19 pandemic. In this editorial, we address practice finances, staffing, telehealth, operational plans after the crisis, and ethical considerations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Views of Patients and Providers on the Use of Telemedicine for Chronic Disease Specialty Care in the Alaska Native Population.
Abstract: Background: Chronic diseases disproportionately affect minority and rural populations. Specialist access improves health outcomes in many chronic diseases but access to specialist care may be limited. Video telemedicine can expand access to specialists in rural locations. Introduction: The objective of this study was to understand patient and provider perspectives on the benefits, barriers, and best uses of video telemedicine in chronic disease specialty care in the setting of a well-established store-and-forward telehealth network with recent expansion of video telemedicine. Materials and Methods: Patients and providers were recruited from specialty clinics at the Alaska Native Medical Center. Semi-structured interviews were conducted after a brief survey. Interview questions focused on perceived benefits and barriers to use of video telemedicine for chronic disease specialty care, as well as the best uses of telemedicine and factors that improve the ease of use. Results: Participants considered the major benefit of telemedicine to be a reduction in travel and related costs. Telemedicine was considered by most participants as less appropriate for new conditions or for new patients. Limitations included the need to perform a physical examination or needing tests, procedures, or medications that cannot be performed in rural clinics. Discussion: This study describes the views of patients and providers who have experience with telemedicine. It did not evaluate the cost-effectiveness or impact on health outcomes, although further studies are planned. Conclusions: Patients and providers view video telemedicine as a reasonable addition to in-person visits for the management of chronic disease, although there are limitations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of diabetic retinopathy screening programs using telemedicine: a systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a significant global public health and economic burden. DR accounts for approximately 15-17% of all cases of total blindness in the USA and Europe. Telemedicine is a new intervention for DR screening, however, there is not enough evidence to support its cost-effectiveness. The aim of this study is to review the most recent published literature on economic evaluations of telemedicine in DR screening and summarize the evidence on the cost-effectiveness of this technology.
METHODS: A systematic search of PubMed, Embase and Google Scholar for relevant articles published between January 2010 and January 2020. Studies were included if they met the following criteria: (1) recruited subjects with either type 1, type 2 diabetes (2) evaluated telemedicine technology (3) patients underwent primary screening for DR (4) compared a telemedicine-based intervention with standard care (5) performed an economic evaluation or provided sufficient data for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of the technology used.
RESULTS: Of 2238 articles screened, seven studies were included. Four of the studies were conducted in developed countries: The United States, Singapore and two studies in Canada. Three studies were conducted in developing countries: India, Brazil and South Africa. The patient populations in all studies were diabetic patients over the age of 18, previously not screened for DR. All seven studies used a telemedicine program which included capturing a retinal image and subsequently transmitting it to an ocular imaging center to assess the severity of DR. All studies compared telemedicine to a standard screening method for DR, including the option of no screening as standard of care. Although telemedicine requires initial and maintenance costs, it has the potential to provide significant cost savings by increasing patients' working ability, increasing independent living ability, increasing quality of life and reducing travel costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetic retinopathy telemedicine technology has the potential to provide significant cost savings, especially in low-income populations and rural patients with high transportation costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Protocol for a randomised controlled trial evaluating the impact of a community pharmacy discharge medication reconciliation service on unplanned hospital readmissions - The DCMedsRec trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: A substantial proportion of hospital admissions and readmissions are directly attributable to preventable medication-related harm. Interventions that reduce these harms could avert significant suffering and healthcare costs.
OBJECTIVES: The Discharge Medications Reconciliation (DCMedsRec) trial will evaluate a structured medication reconciliation service by community pharmacists post hospital discharge on the risk of 30-day unplanned readmission. Electronic access to the Hospital Discharge Summary via My Health Record will underpin this service.
METHODS: DCMedsRec is a non-blinded randomised controlled trial of an intervention by community pharmacists within 30 days of hospital discharge in Melbourne, Australia. Patients discharged from hospital will be assessed by a hospital pharmacist for trial eligibility. If eligible, patients will be randomised to either a control or intervention group by sequentially marked sealed envelopes. Intervention patients receive an invitation to the DCMedsRec service at a participating community pharmacy, who will be reimbursed. Control patients will receive usual care. A Number Needed to Treat of 20 will require 293 DCMedsRec interventions to achieve 80% power. With a predicted 30% uptake, a minimum sample of 977 in the intervention arm is required.
OUTCOMES: The primary outcome will be the rate of 30-day unplanned hospital readmission in intervention (DCMedsRec) versus usual care groups. Secondary analyses will evaluate the economic impact of the intervention and a qualitative thematic analysis of the experience and value of the service for both patients and service providers (community pharmacists).
ANALYSIS: An intention-to-treat analysis will be used to assess intervention efficacy and results will be reported using risk ratios with 95% confidence intervals. Cost-effectiveness analysis will compare within-trial costs and outcomes of the DCMedsRec versus usual care from a health-system perspective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION AND FUNDING: This trial is registered with the Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register and funded by the Australian Digital Health Agency.
Label Included: 0

Title: The use of digitally collected patient-reported outcome measures for newly operated patients with total knee and hip replacements to improve post-treatment recovery: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The number of total knee replacements (TKRs) and total hip replacements (THRs) has been increasing noticeably in high-income countries, such as Germany. In particular, the number of revisions is expected to rise because of higher life expectancy and procedures performed on younger patients, impacting the budgets of health-care systems. Quality transparency is the basis of holistic patient pathway optimization. Nevertheless, a nation-wide cross-sectoral assessment of quality from a patient perspective does not yet exist. Several studies have shown that the use of patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) is effective for measuring quality and monitoring post-treatment recovery. For the first time in Germany, we test whether early detection of critical recovery paths using PROMs after TKR/THR improves the quality of care in a cost-effective way and can be recommended for implementation into standard care.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study is a two-arm multi-center patient-level randomized controlled trial. Patients from nine hospitals are included in the study. Patient-centered questionnaires are employed to regularly measure digitized PROMs of TKR/THR patients from the time of hospital admission until 12 months post-discharge. An expert consortium has defined PROM alert thresholds at 1, 3, and 6 months to signal critical recovery paths after TKR/THR. An algorithm alerts study assistants if patients are not recovering in line with expected recovery paths. The study assistants contact patients and their physicians to investigate and, if needed, adjust the post-treatment protocol. When sickness funds' claims data are added, the cost-effectiveness of the intervention can be analyzed.
DISCUSSION: The study is expected to deliver an important contribution to test PROMs as an intervention tool and examine the determinants of high-quality endoprosthetic care. Depending on a positive and cost-effective impact, the goal is to transfer the study design into standard care. During the trial design phase, several insights have been discovered, and there were opportunities for efficient digital monitoring limited by existing legacy care models. Digitalization in hospital processes and the implementation of digital tools still represent challenges for hospital personnel and patients. Furthermore, data privacy regulations and the separation between the in- and outpatient sector are roadblocks to effectively monitor and assess quality along the full patient pathway.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register: DRKS00019916. Registered November 26, 2019 - retrospectively registered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Agonizing and Expensive: A Review of Institutional Costs of Ankle Fusion Nonunions.
Abstract: Nonunion after ankle arthrodesis requiring revision is a challenging operative complication, and bone graft substitutes are costly. This study sought to summarize all institutional expenditures related to the revision of an ankle fusion nonunion, presuming that cost and skin-to-skin time would exceed those of the index surgery. The electronic records from 2 foot and ankle centers were reviewed, leading to a list of patients with 2 or more entries for tibiotalar fusions being generated. A total of 24 cases were found to match the criteria. Demographic factors and skin-to-skin time of the remaining patients were compiled. This cohort included 24 patients (6 female and 18 male) with a mean age of 64 years and body mass index of 30.4 kg/m2. Supplemental clinic visits and investigations were included either after computed tomography to assess union or 365 days after index surgery. Total cost of the revision was calculated from billing codes, length of operation, and period of hospitalization. Postrevision outpatient fees were included as well. The revisions were performed open in all cases, and 21 patients received autograft and/or bone substitute. Mean postoperative hospitalization was 3 days. The additional costs (in US dollars) associated with nonunion were $1061 for imaging, $627 for prerevision visits, $3026 for the revision, $3432 for the hospital stay, and $1754 for postrevision follow-up. The total mean amount was $9683, equivalent to 9 nights of acute inpatient stay. Mean index skin-to-skin time was 114 minutes, being 126 minutes for revisions (P=.26). Additional care related to ankle fusion nonunion represents a financial burden equivalent to 9 nights of acute inpatient stay. The use of an orthobiologic would need to be less than $436 to be cost saving. Revision surgery is not significantly longer intraoperatively than index surgery. [Orthopedics. 2020;43(4):e219-e224.].
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluation of a Telemedicine Service to expand Primary Health Care in Rio Grande do Sul: TeleOftalmo's microcosting analysis.
Abstract: This study evaluated the cost of public telediagnostic service in ophthalmology. The time-driven activity-based costing method (TDABC) was adopted to examine the cost components related to teleophthalmology. This method allowed us to establish the standard unit cost of telediagnosis, given the installed capacity and utilization of professionals. We considered data from one year of telediagnoses and evaluated the cost per telediagnosis change throughout technology adaptation in the system. The standard cost calculated by distance ophthalmic diagnosis was approximately R$ 119, considering the issuance of 1,080 monthly ophthalmic telediagnostic reports. We identified an imbalance between activities, which suggests the TDABC method's ability to guide management actions and improve resource allocation. The actual unit cost fell from R$ 783 to R$ 283 over one year - with room to approach the estimated standard cost. Partial economic evaluations contribute significantly to support the incorporation of new technologies. The TDABC method deserves prominence, as it enables us to retrieve more accurate information on the cost of technology, improving the scalability and management capacity of the healthcare system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness and resource allocation (CERA) 18 years of evolution: maturity of adulthood and promise beyond tomorrow.
Abstract: Since its inception in 2003, Cost Effectiveness and Resource Allocation journal has come a long way over the past 18 years. Possibly much longer than many of its contemporaries in the blossoming science of health economics might have anticipated. Today, entering 2020 it celebrates the Age of Maturity. We believe that in the third decade of XXI century the interdisciplinary science of health economics, will rejuvenate and come back to us younger than ever from its early historical roots almost a century ago. The spreading of economic globalization in several distinctive ways, either led by multinational business corporations or newly emerged Asian leadership, or both, is likely to make challenges for contemporary health systems far more serious. The fourth industrial revolution (cyber physical systems and artificial intelligence technology) and accelerated innovation in the field of E-Health and digital health, will probably change the workflow in medical and health care, and inevitably transform the labour market in the upcoming decades. So, let us be up to the task. Let us provide academic centres, industry-sponsored pharmaceutical and medical device innovation hubs, and governing authorities alike, with a powerful forum for debate on cost-effective resource allocation in the years to come.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home care for burn survivors: A phenomenological study of lived experiences.
Abstract: Background: Burn injuries have negative impacts on all dimensions of the quality of life of burn victims. This study aimed to explore the lived experiences of burn survivors after a 6-month period of home care following hospital discharge.Method: This is a qualitative study with a phenomenological approach. Sixteen burn survivors from a university hospital in Kermanshah province participated in the study. Qualitative data were analyzed by Colaizzi's descriptive phenomenological approach.Results: "Rehabilitation in the process of life" was the main theme of the study with four sub-themes, including "conducting process", "caring bridge", "humanitarian commitment for human revival", and "healing care".Conclusions: Home care is necessary for burn survivors after discharge from the hospital. The connection of healthcare services between home and hospital, safety feeling in the patient and his/her family, cost-effectiveness of healthcare services, and encouraging the patient to perform self-care can be achieved by home care follow-ups.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of integrated community case management of childhood malaria, diarrhea and pneumonia enhanced by mobile health technology in rural Zambia.
Abstract: Integrated community case management (iCCM) of malaria, diarrhea, and pneumonia is a comprehensive, equitybased strategy to improve treatment access for underserved children under five years old. This paper presents data on cost of iCCM and incremental costs of mHealth enhanced supervision and supply chain management in Zambia. We collected cost data using three questionnaires applied at national, district, health facility and community levels. We interviewed 40 health facility supervisors and 75 community health workers. A provider perspective and an ingredient costing method was used. We entered and analyzed data in a customized excel costing tool. The result shows that total iCCM cost per patient contact was USD 18.43. The incremental cost of using the mHealth intervention per child contact for all iCCM conditions was USD 11.35. The incremental cost per treatment of diarrhea, pneumonia, and malaria with mHealth intervention was USD 9.58, USD 10.37 and USD 12.82. Program costs accounted for 67% of the total, and the largest share was associated with supervision estimated at 36%, followed by supply chain management at 27%. This study has provided valuable information to policy makers on how much it costs to implement iCCM program using mHealth interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Emerging opportunities to harness real world data: An introduction to data sources, concepts, and applications.
Abstract: While randomized controlled trials (RCTs) are the gold standard for comparative effectiveness research, they are unable to provide the answers to all pertinent clinical and research questions. Real world evidence (RWE), that is, clinical evidence obtained outside RCTs and often through routine clinical practice, offers the potential to conduct observational studies that accelerate advances in care, improve outcomes for patients, and provide important insights that can answer important questions. Once appropriate information technology is available, real world data can be cost-effective to generate. RWE serves a vital role in the evaluation of treatment strategies for which there are no RCTs and for describing patterns of care. RWE also serves as an important adjunct to RCTs and can be used to determine if benefits seen in RCTs extend to clinical practice, provide insight into the findings of RCTs, generate hypotheses for future RCTs, and inform the design of future RCTs. These potential benefits must be balanced against some of the important limitations of RWE, including variable data quality, lack of granularity for important clinical variables, and the potential for bias and confounding. By using appropriate analytic techniques and study design, these limitations can be minimized but not eliminated. Going forward, RWE studies may be enhanced by using rigorous data quality standards, incorporating randomization, developing more prospective registries, and better leveraging data from electronic health records.
Label Included: 0

Title: Intervention and Evaluation of Mobile Health Technologies in Management of Patients Undergoing Chronic Dialysis: Scoping Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Studies have shown the effectiveness and user acceptance of mobile health (mHealth) technologies in managing patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). However, incorporating mHealth technology into the standard care of patients with CKD still faces many challenges. To our knowledge, there are no reviews on mHealth interventions and their assessments concerning the management of patients undergoing dialysis.
OBJECTIVE: This study provided a scoping review on existing apps and interventions of mHealth technologies in adult patients undergoing chronic dialysis and identified the gaps in patient outcome assessment of mHealth technologies in the literature.
METHODS: We systematically searched PubMed (MEDLINE), Scopus, and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature databases, as well as gray literature sources. Two keywords, "mHealth" and "dialysis," were combined to address the main concepts of the objectives. Inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) mHealth interventions, which are on a smartphone, tablet, or web-based portals that are accessible through mobile devices; and (2) adult patients (age ≥18 years) on chronic dialysis. Only English papers published from January 2008 to October 2018 were included. Studies with mHealth apps for other chronic conditions, based on e-consultation or videoconferencing, non-English publications, and review papers were excluded.
RESULTS: Of the 1054 papers identified, 22 met the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Most studies (n=20) were randomized controlled trials and cohort studies. These studies were carried out in 7 countries. The main purposes of these mHealth interventions were as follows: nutrition or dietary self-monitoring (n=7), remote biometric monitoring (n=7), web-based portal (n=4), self-monitoring of in-session dialysis-specific information (n=3), and self-monitoring of lifestyle or behavioral change (n=1). The outcomes of the 22 included studies were organized into five categories: (1) patient satisfaction and acceptance, (2) clinical effectiveness, (3) economic assessment, (4) health-related quality of life, and (5) impact on lifestyle or behavioral change. The mHealth interventions showed neutral to positive results in chronic dialysis patient management, reporting no to significant improvement of dialysis-specific measurements and some components of the overall quality of life assessment. Evaluation of these mHealth interventions consistently demonstrated evidence in patients' satisfaction, high level of user acceptance, and reduced use of health resources and cost savings to health care services. However, there is a lack of studies evaluating safety, organizational, sociocultural, ethical, and legal aspects of mHealth technologies. Furthermore, a comprehensive cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analysis of adopting mHealth technologies was not found in the literature.
CONCLUSIONS: The gaps identified in this study will inform the creation of health policies and organizational support for mHealth implementation in patients undergoing dialysis. The findings of this review will inform the development of a comprehensive service model that utilizes mHealth technologies for home monitoring and self-management of patients undergoing chronic dialysis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Global Telemedicine Implementation and Integration Within Health Systems to Fight the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Call to Action.
Abstract: On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak as a pandemic, with over 720,000 cases reported in more than 203 countries as of 31 March. The response strategy included early diagnosis, patient isolation, symptomatic monitoring of contacts as well as suspected and confirmed cases, and public health quarantine. In this context, telemedicine, particularly video consultations, has been promoted and scaled up to reduce the risk of transmission, especially in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Based on a literature review, the first conceptual framework for telemedicine implementation during outbreaks was published in 2015. An updated framework for telemedicine in the COVID-19 pandemic has been defined. This framework could be applied at a large scale to improve the national public health response. Most countries, however, lack a regulatory framework to authorize, integrate, and reimburse telemedicine services, including in emergency and outbreak situations. In this context, Italy does not include telemedicine in the essential levels of care granted to all citizens within the National Health Service, while France authorized, reimbursed, and actively promoted the use of telemedicine. Several challenges remain for the global use and integration of telemedicine into the public health response to COVID-19 and future outbreaks. All stakeholders are encouraged to address the challenges and collaborate to promote the safe and evidence-based use of telemedicine during the current pandemic and future outbreaks. For countries without integrated telemedicine in their national health care system, the COVID-19 pandemic is a call to adopt the necessary regulatory frameworks for supporting wide adoption of telemedicine.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving Social Connectedness for Homebound Older Adults: Randomized Controlled Trial of Tele-Delivered Behavioral Activation Versus Tele-Delivered Friendly Visits.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To test the acceptability and effectiveness of a lay-coach-facilitated, videoconferenced, short-term behavioral activation (Tele-BA) intervention for improving social connectedness among homebound older adults.
METHODS: We employed a two-site, participant-randomized controlled trial with 89 older adults (averaging 74 years old) who were recipients of, and initially screened by, home-delivered meals programs. All participants reported loneliness; many reported being socially isolated and/or dissatisfaction with social support. Participants received five weekly videoconference sessions of either Tele-BA or Tele-FV (friendly visits; active control). Three primary outcomes were social interaction (Duke Social Support Index [DSSI] Social Interaction Subscale), subjective loneliness (PROMIS Social Isolation Scale), and DSSI Satisfaction with Social Support Subscale. Depression severity (PHQ-9) and disability (WHODAS 2.0) were secondary outcomes. Mixed-effects regression models were fit to evaluate outcomes at 6- and 12-weeks follow-up.
RESULTS: Compared to Tele-FV participants, Tele-BA participants had greater increase in social interaction (t [81] = 2.42, p = 0.018) and satisfaction with social support (t [82] = 2.00, p = 0.049) and decrease in loneliness (t [81] = -3.08, p = 0.003), depression (t [82] = -3.46, p = 0.001), and disability (t [81] = -2.29, p = 0.025).
CONCLUSION: A short-term, lay-coach-facilitated Tele-BA is a promising intervention for the growing numbers of homebound older adults lacking social connectedness. The intervention holds promise for scalability in programs that already serve homebound older adults. More research is needed to solidify the clinical evidence base, cost-effectiveness and sustainability of Tele-BA delivered by lay coaches for homebound and other older adults.
Label Included: 0

Title: Healthcare Digitalization and Pay-For-Performance Incentives in Smart Hospital Project Financing.
Abstract: This study aims to explore the impact of healthcare digitalization on smart hospital project financing (PF) fostered by pay-for-performance (P4P) incentives. Digital platforms are a technology-enabled business model that facilitates exchanges between interacting agents. They represent a bridging link among disconnected nodes, improving the scalable value of networks. Application to healthcare public-private partnerships (PPPs) is significant due to the consistency of digital platforms with health issues and the complexity of the stakeholder's interaction. In infrastructural PPPs, public and private players cooperate, usually following PF patterns. This relationship is complemented by digitized supply chains and is increasingly patient-centric. This paper reviews the literature, analyzes some supply chain bottlenecks, addresses solutions concerning the networking effects of platforms to improve PPP interactions, and investigates the cost-benefit analysis of digital health with an empirical case. Whereas diagnostic or infrastructural technology is an expensive investment with long-term payback, leapfrogging digital applications reduce contingent costs. "Digital" savings can be shared by key stakeholders with P4P schemes, incentivizing value co-creation patterns. Efficient sharing may apply network theory to a comprehensive PPP ecosystem where stakeholding nodes are digitally connected. This innovative approach improves stakeholder relationships, which are re-engineered around digital platforms that enhance patient-centered satisfaction and sustainability. Digital technologies are useful even for infectious disease surveillance, like that of the coronavirus pandemic, for supporting massive healthcare intervention, decongesting hospitals, and providing timely big data.
Label Included: 0

Title: Video-interpreting for cognitive assessments: An intervention study and micro-costing analysis.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Evidence in the literature demonstrates the reliability of cognitive screening assessments using video technology in English-speaking older populations. However, this has not been tested in older culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) populations who require an interpreter, and what the associated costs would be. The aim was to determine if the Rowland Universal Dementia Assessment Scale (RUDAS) and the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) could be reliably administered over video-interpreting methods compared with face-to-face interpreting. In addition, the study aims to compare the costs of video-interpreting with the costs of face-to-face interpreting.
METHODS: We compared similarity of the RUDAS and GDS scores when administered face-to-face and via video-interpreting. The similarity of scores between methods was analysed using paired t-tests and Bland-Altman plots. A costing analysis was done using a micro-costing approach to estimate the costs of video-interpreting compared with face-to-face, extrapolated to a national level.
RESULTS: Analysis found no significant differences in the mean assessment scores between video-interpreting and face-to-face (RUDAS mean difference: -0.36; 95% confidence interval (CI): -1.09, 0.38, GDS mean difference: 0.22; 95% CI: -0.38, 0.83). Bland-Altman plots demonstrated that 71% of RUDAS scores and 82% of GDS scores were within the maximum allowed difference of ±2 units. Costing analysis showed a A$7 saving per assessment when using video-interpreting compared with face-to-face, with a total national saving of A$247,350.
DISCUSSION: Video-interpreting was found to be as reliable as face-to-face interpreting for both RUDAS and GDS assessments. Cost analysis indicates that video-interpreting is cheaper than face-to-face interpreting.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Effectiveness of Self-Management of Hypertension in Adults Using Mobile Health: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Effective treatment of hypertension requires careful self-management. With the ongoing development of mobile technologies and the scarcity of health care resources, mobile health (mHealth)-based self-management has become a useful treatment for hypertension, and its effectiveness has been assessed in many trials. However, there is a paucity of comprehensive summaries of the studies using both qualitative and quantitative methods.
OBJECTIVE: This systematic review aimed to measure the effectiveness of mHealth in improving the self-management of hypertension for adults. The outcome measures were blood pressure (BP), BP control, medication adherence, self-management behavior, and costs.
METHODS: A systematic search was conducted using 5 electronic databases. The snowballing method was used to scan the reference lists of relevant studies. Only peer-reviewed randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published between January 2010 and September 2019 were included. Data extraction and quality assessment were performed by 3 researchers independently, adhering to the validation guideline and checklist. Both a meta-analysis and a narrative synthesis were carried out.
RESULTS: A total of 24 studies with 8933 participants were included. Of these, 23 studies reported the clinical outcome of BP, 12 of these provided systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) data, and 16 articles focused on change in self-management behavior and medication adherence. All 24 studies were included in the narrative synthesis. According to the meta-analysis, a greater reduction in both SBP and DBP was observed in the mHealth intervention groups compared with control groups, -3.78 mm Hg (P<.001; 95% CI -4.67 to -2.89) and -1.57 mm Hg (P<.001; 95% CI -2.28 to -0.86), respectively. Subgroup analyses showed consistent reductions in SBP and DBP across different frequencies of reminders, interactive patterns, intervention functions, and study duration subgroups. A total of 16 studies reported better medication adherence and behavioral change in the intervention groups, while 8 showed no significant change. Six studies included an economic evaluation, which drew inconsistent conclusions. However, potentially long-term financial benefits were mentioned in all economic evaluations. All studies were assessed to be at high risk of bias.
CONCLUSIONS: This review found that mHealth self-management interventions were effective in BP control. The outcomes of this review showed improvements in self-management behavior and medication adherence. The most successful mHealth intervention combined the feature of tailored messages, interactive communication, and multifaceted functions. Further research with longer duration and cultural adaptation is necessary. With increasing disease burden from hypertension globally, mHealth offers a potentially effective method for self-management and control of BP. mHealth can be easily integrated into existing health care systems.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42019152062; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=152062.
Label Included: 0

Title: Supervision as a tool for building surgical capacity of district hospitals: the case of Zambia.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Many countries in sub-Saharan Africa have adopted task shifting of surgical responsibilities to non-physician clinicians (NPCs) as a solution to address workforce shortages. There is resistance to delegating surgical procedures to NPCs due to concerns about their surgical skills and lack of supervision systems to ensure safety and quality of care provided. This study aimed to explore the effects of a new supervision model implemented in Zambia to improve the delivery of health services by surgical NPCs working at district hospitals.
METHODS: Twenty-eight semi-structured interviews were conducted with NPCs and medical doctors at nine district hospitals and with the surgical specialists who provided in-person and remote supervision over an average period of 15 months. Data were analysed using 'top-down' and 'bottom-up' thematic coding.
RESULTS: Interviewees reported an improvement in the surgical skills and confidence of NPCs, as well as better teamwork. At the facility level, supervision led to an increase in the volume and range of surgical procedures done and helped to reduce unnecessary surgical referrals. The supervision also improved communication links by facilitating the establishment of a remote consultation network, which enabled specialists to provide real-time support to district NPCs in how to undertake particular surgical procedures and expert guidance on referral decisions. Despite these benefits, shortages of operating theatre support staff, lack of equipment and unreliable power supply impeded maximum utilisation of supervision.
CONCLUSION: This supervision model demonstrated the additional role that specialist surgeons can play, bringing their expertise to rural populations, where such surgical competence would otherwise be unobtainable. Further research is needed to establish the cost-effectiveness of the supervision model; the opportunity costs from surgical specialists being away from referral hospitals, providing supervision in districts; and the steps needed for regular district surgical supervision to become part of sustainable national programmes.
Label Included: 0

Title: "Nomen Omen": Exploring Connected Healthcare through the Perspective of Name Omen.
Abstract: Background: The evolution of names, from "medical informatics" to "connected health", implies that the evolvement of technology in health care has been shifted from technology-oriented to healthcare-oriented implementation. Connected healthcare, a healthcare platform of remote monitoring and self-management through technological measures, is suggested to contribute to the efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and satisfaction of healthcare recipient enhancement. However, limited understanding of related connected health (CH) terminology may constrain its implementation. Whether CH is a buzzword only or a practice that can contribute to an aging society is controversial. Objective: This study aims to distinguish CH-related terminology and to identify the trend of CH through reviewing its definition, initiation, development, and evolvement, in order to offer management insights and implications. The objective is to understand what is connected and who is cared about in the connected health model so that better applications can be addressed for the benefit of society. Method: This study reviews the evolution of names, from "medical informatics" in the 1970s to "connected health" after 2000, as well as relevant literature of CH, including e-health, telemedicine, telehealth, telecare, and m-health, to discover the trend of technology-related healthcare innovations. Results: The current status and issues facing accessibility, quality, and cost were presented. Its future trends will be explored through reviewing how changes in healthcare are managed, in addition to its operation and practice. Pre-conditions and requirements for implementing CH are identified to select a typical case to study. Findings suggest that areas with a complete business ecosystem-isolated locations, advanced information technology, aging in population, integrated health, and social care system-are prevalent for designing friendly CH environments. Conclusion: The evidence and tendency of technological convergence create a demand for innovation and partnering with start-up companies that offer a competitive advantage in innovation.
Label Included: 0

Title: How to Value Digital Health Interventions? A Systematic Literature Review.
Abstract: In Europe, there were almost twice as many patents granted for medical technology (13,795) compared to pharmaceuticals (7441) in 2018. It is important to ask how to integrate such an amount of innovations into routine clinical practice and how to measure the value it brings to the healthcare system. Given the novelty of digital health interventions (DHI), one can even question whether the quality-adjusted life years (QALY) approach developed for pharmaceuticals can be used or whether we need to develop a new DHI's value assessment framework. We conducted a systematic literature review of published DHIs' assessment guidelines. Each publication was analyzed with a 12-items checklist based on a EUnetHTA core model enriched with additional criteria such as usability, interoperability, and data security. In total, 11 value assessment guidelines were identified. The review revealed that safety, clinical effectiveness, usability, economic aspects, and interoperability were most often discussed (seven out of 11). More than half of the guidelines addressed organizational impact, data security, choice of comparator, and technical considerations (six out of 11). The unmet medical needs (three out of 11), along with the ethical (two out of 11) and legal aspects (one out of 11), were given the least attention. No author provided an analytical framework for the calculation of clinical and economic outcomes. We elicited five recommendations for the choice of DHI's value criteria and a methodological suggestion for the pricing and reimbursement framework. Our conclusions lead to the need for a new DHI's value assessment framework instead of a QALY approach.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine for Age-Related Macular Degeneration.
Abstract: Background:As the leading cause of vision loss in the United States, age-related macular degeneration (AMD) would seem to be amenable to interventions that increase access to screening and management services for patients. AMD poses several unique challenges for telemedicine, however. The disease lacks clinical consensus on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening the general population, and more complex imaging modalities may be required than for what has traditionally been used for diabetic retinopathy telehealth systems.Methods:The current literature was reviewed to find clinical trials and expert consensus documents on the state-of-the-art of telemedicine for AMD.Results:A range of feasibility studies have reported success with telemedicine strategies for AMD. Several investigators have reported experience with AMD screening and remote-monitoring systems as well as artificial intelligence applications.Conclusions:There are currently no large-scale telemedicine programs for either screening or managing AMD, but new approaches to screening and managing the condition may allow for expansion of high-quality convenient care for an increasing patient population.
Label Included: 0

Title: Association of the Meaningful Use Electronic Health Record Incentive Program With Health Information Technology Venture Capital Funding.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Although the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act has accelerated electronic health record (EHR) adoption since its passage, clinician satisfaction with EHRs remains low, and the association of HITECH with health care information technology (IT) entrepreneurship has remained largely unstudied.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the passage of the HITECH Act was associated with an increase in key measures of health care IT entrepreneurship.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This economic evaluation of venture capital (VC) activity in the US from 2000 to 2019 examined funding trends in health care IT, EHR-related companies, and all VC investments before and after the passage of HITECH. A difference-in-differences analysis compared investments in health care IT companies with those of companies in 3 categories: general health care (non-IT), IT (non-health care), and all US VC transactions. Data were analyzed from September 2018 to August 2019.
EXPOSURES: Venture capital funding received by US companies before and after the HITECH Act.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Venture capital investment in health care IT companies and the proportion of those investments going to seed-stage companies, a proxy for very early-stage entrepreneurship and innovation.
RESULTS: The data included 70 982 investments, of which 9425 (13.3%) were seed stage, 10 706 (15.1%) were early stage, and 50 851 (71.6%) were growth stage. After passage of the HITECH Act, investment in both health care IT companies and EHR-related companies increased at a rate much faster (13.0% and 11.4%, respectively) than VC as a whole (6.9%). In addition, the proportion of investments going to seed-stage health care IT companies increased compared with both overall VC investments and non-IT health care investments. Health care IT companies saw increased probabilities of transactions being seed-stage of 5.1% (SE, 2.2%; 95% CI, 0.8% to 9.3%; P = .02) compared with the entire sample of VC transactions and 13.6% (SE, 1.9%; 95% CI, 9.9% to 17.2%; P < .001) compared with non-IT health care VC transactions. Health care IT had essentially 0 increased probability of a transaction being seed stage compared with IT companies outside health care (-0.8% probability; SE, 2.4%; 95% CI, -5.4% to 3.9%; P = .75).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Although widespread clinician dissatisfaction with EHR systems remains a challenge, the HITECH Act's incentive program may have catalyzed early-stage entrepreneurship in health care IT, suggesting an important role for incentives in promoting innovation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Quantifying geographic accessibility to improve efficiency of entomological monitoring.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vector-borne diseases are important causes of mortality and morbidity in humans and livestock, particularly for poorer communities and countries in the tropics. Large-scale programs against these diseases, for example malaria, dengue and African trypanosomiasis, include vector control, and assessing the impact of this intervention requires frequent and extensive monitoring of disease vector abundance. Such monitoring can be expensive, especially in the later stages of a successful program where numbers of vectors and cases are low.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We developed a system that allows the identification of monitoring sites where pre-intervention densities of vectors are predicted to be high, and travel cost to sites is low, highlighting the most efficient locations for longitudinal monitoring. Using remotely sensed imagery and an image classification algorithm, we mapped landscape resistance associated with on- and off-road travel for every gridded location (3m and 0.5m grid cells) within Koboko district, Uganda. We combine the accessibility surface with pre-existing estimates of tsetse abundance and propose a stratified sampling approach to determine the most efficient locations for longitudinal data collection. Our modelled predictions were validated against empirical measurements of travel-time and existing maps of road networks. We applied this approach in northern Uganda where a large-scale vector control program is being implemented to control human African trypanosomiasis, a neglected tropical disease (NTD) caused by trypanosomes transmitted by tsetse flies. Our accessibility surfaces indicate a high performance when compared to empirical data, with remote sensing identifying a further ~70% of roads than existing networks.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: By integrating such estimates with predictions of tsetse abundance, we propose a methodology to determine the optimal placement of sentinel monitoring sites for evaluating control programme efficacy, moving from a nuanced, ad-hoc approach incorporating intuition, knowledge of vector ecology and local knowledge of geographic accessibility, to a reproducible, quantifiable one.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Cost-Minimization Analysis of a Medical Record-based, Store and Forward and Provider-to-provider Telemedicine Compared to Usual Care in Catalonia: More Agile and Efficient, Especially for Users.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine (interconsultation between primary and hospital care teams) has been operating in the counties of Central Catalonia Bages, Moianès and Berguedà since 2011, specializing in teledermatology, teleulcers, teleophthalmology and teleaudiometries. For the period until the end of 2019, a total of 52,198 visits were recorded.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the differential costs between telemedicine and usual care in a semi-urban environment.
METHODOLOGY: A cost-minimization evaluation, including direct and indirect costs from a societal perspective, distinguishing healthcare and user's costs, was carried out over a three-month period.
RESULTS: Telemedicine saved € 780,397 over the period analyzed. A differential cost favorable to telemedicine of about € 15 per visit was observed, with the patient being the largest beneficiary of this saving (by 85%) in terms of shorter waiting times and travel costs. From the healthcare system perspective, moving the time spent in a hospital care consultation to primary care is efficient in terms of the total time devoted per patient. In social terms and in this context, telemedicine is more efficient than usual care.
CONCLUSION: Allowing users to save time in terms of consultation and travel is the main driver of interconsultation between primary and hospital care savings in a semi-urban context. The telemedicine service is also economically favorable for the healthcare system, enabling it to provide a more agile service, which also benefits healthcare professionals.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficient NTRU Lattice-Based Certificateless Signature Scheme for Medical Cyber-Physical Systems.
Abstract: An electronic health (e-health) system, such as a medical cyber-physical system, offers a number of benefits (e.g. inform medical diagnosis). There are, however, a number of considerations in the implementation of the medical cyber-physical system, such as the integrity of medical / healthcare data (e.g. manipulated data can result in misdiagnosis). A number of digital signature schemes have been proposed in recent years to mitigate some of these challenges. However, the security of existing signatures is mostly based on conventional difficult mathematical problems, which are known to be insecure against quantum attacks. In this paper, we propose a certificateless signature scheme, based on NTRU lattice. The latter is based on the difficulty of small integer solutions on the NTRU lattice, and is known to be quantum attack resilience. Security analysis and performance evaluations demonstrate that our proposed scheme achieves significantly reduced communication and computation costs in comparison to two other competing quantum resilience schemes, while being quantum attack resilience.
Label Included: 0

Title: Study protocol: a randomized controlled trial comparing the efficacy of therapist guided internet-delivered cognitive therapy (TG-iConquerFear) with augmented treatment as usual in reducing fear of cancer recurrence in Danish colorectal cancer survivors.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cognitive therapy has been shown to reduce fear of cancer recurrence (FCR), mainly in breast cancer survivors. The accessibility of cognitive behavioural interventions could be further improved by Internet delivery, but self-guided interventions have shown limited efficacy. The aim of this study is to test the efficacy of a therapist guided internet-delivered intervention (TG-iConquerFear) vs. augmented treatment as usual (aTAU) in Danish colorectal cancer survivors.
METHODS/DESIGN: A population-based randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing TG-iConquerFear with aTAU (1:1) in n = 246 colorectal cancer survivors who suffer from clinically significant FCR (Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory Short Form (FCRI-SF) ≥ 22 and semi-structured interview). Evaluation will be conducted at 2 weeks, 3 and 6 months post-treatment and between-group differences will be evaluated. Long-term effects will be evaluated after one year. Primary outcome will be post-treatment FCR (FCRI-SF). Secondary outcomes are global overall health and global quality of life (Visual Analogue Scales 0-100), bodily distress syndrome (BDS checklist), health anxiety (Whiteley-6), anxiety (SCL4-anx), depression (SCL6-dep) and sickness absence and health expenditure (register data). Explanatory outcomes include: Uncertainty in illness (Mishels uncertainty of illness scale, short form, MUIS), metacognitions (MCQ-30 negative beliefs about worry subscale), and perceived risk of cancer recurrence (Visual analogue Scale 1-100).
DISCUSSION: This RCT will provide valuable information on the clinical and cost-effectiveness of TG-iConquerFear vs. aTAU for CRC survivors with clinical FCR, as well as explanatory variables that may act as outcome moderators or mediators.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov; NCT04287218, registered 25.02.2020. https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?cond=&term=NCT04287218&cntry=&state=&city=&dist=.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telesurgical Assessment: Using Smartphone Messaging to Efficiently Manage Postoperative Wounds.
Abstract: Background: Telemedicine is an evolving field of interactions between physicians and patients remotely. Health care delivery, patient satisfaction, adherence, earlier diagnosis, increased access, and cost reduction are all areas that telemedicine has potential influence. One focus involves the use of photos in wound assessment. Today, many patients' smartphones can capture high-quality digital photographs, which can easily be transmitted. Postoperative patients are an ideal population for this, as they have a certain level of uncertainty with regard to the healing course, which can often lead to patients seeking out care in unnecessarily costly settings. These visits can lead to inefficient use of health care resources, especially when a telesurgical assessment (TSA) could provide appropriate care more efficiently. Objective: We present data collected from a series of patients who received a TSA to demonstrate the potential benefits of incorporating TSA into postoperative wound care. Methods/Clinical Presentation: Patients who underwent a procedure and contacted their surgeon within 2 weeks with concerns received a TSA, which included a discussion as well as photographs through smartphone. Their surgeon then determined further treatment steps, if any. Results: We experienced that 85% of patients did not require emergent treatment for their concerns, 46% were prescribed medications, whereas 39% of patients did not require any intervention. Conclusion: Our results show that TSAs alleviated patient concerns and provide resolutions, while saving resources and increasing satisfaction. Incorporating aspects of telemedicine into outpatient practice could be valuable, especially with postoperative wound checks.
Label Included: 0

Title: Better Knee, Better Me™: effectiveness of two scalable health care interventions supporting self-management for knee osteoarthritis - protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although education, exercise, and weight loss are recommended for management of knee osteoarthritis, the additional benefits of incorporating weight loss strategies into exercise interventions have not been well investigated. The aim of this study is to compare, in a private health insurance setting, the clinical- and cost-effectiveness of a remotely-delivered, evidence- and theory-informed, behaviour change intervention targeting exercise and self-management (Exercise intervention), with the same intervention plus active weight management (Exercise plus weight management intervention), and with an information-only control group for people with knee osteoarthritis who are overweight or obese.
METHODS: Three-arm, pragmatic parallel-design randomised controlled trial involving 415 people aged ≥45 and ≤ 80 years, with body mass index ≥28 kg/m2 and < 41 kg/m2 and painful knee osteoarthritis. Recruitment is Australia-wide amongst Medibank private health insurance members. All three groups receive access to a bespoke website containing information about osteoarthritis and self-management. Participants in the Exercise group also receive six consultations with a physiotherapist via videoconferencing over 6 months, including prescription of a strengthening exercise and physical activity program, advice about management, and additional educational resources. The Exercise plus weight management group receive six consultations with a dietitian via videoconferencing over 6 months, which include a very low calorie ketogenic diet with meal replacements and resources to support behaviour change, in addition to the interventions of the Exercise group. Outcomes are measured at baseline, 6 and 12 months. Primary outcomes are self-reported knee pain and physical function at 6 months. Secondary outcomes include weight, physical activity levels, quality of life, global rating of change, satisfaction with care, knee surgery and/or appointments with an orthopaedic surgeon, and willingness to undergo surgery. Additional measures include adherence, adverse events, self-efficacy, and perceived usefulness of intervention components. Cost-effectiveness of each intervention will also be assessed.
DISCUSSION: This pragmatic study will determine whether a scalable remotely-delivered service combining weight management with exercise is more effective than a service with exercise alone, and with both compared to an information-only control group. Findings will inform development and implementation of future remotely-delivered services for people with knee osteoarthritis.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: ACTRN12618000930280 (01/06/2018).
Label Included: 0

Title: Burning Issues in Health Technology Assessment and Policy Making: What's Keeping Senior Health Technology Assessment Users and Producers up at Night?
Abstract: A key working session, held as part of the Health Technology Assessment international (HTAi) Global Policy Forum meeting asks members to share "What's Keeping Me Up At Night." Members-senior thought leaders from health technology assessment (HTA) agencies, payer organizations, industry, and the HTAi Board-share without fear or favor the thorny issues related to HTA that are challenging them now or likely to do so in the near future. This article contains a reflection on the discussions at this session over the last 2 years and focuses on the recurrent and repeated themes: internal and external stakeholder involvement in HTA processes; globalization of HTA and the future of HTA (namely innovative technologies, tide of data and the "war for talent"). While the aim of these informal sessions is not to produce solutions, it reinforces the importance of developing a truly multi-stakeholder HTA community with working relationships built on mutual trust and long-standing engagement.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital health interventions for chronic diseases: a scoping review of evaluation frameworks.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Monitoring and evaluations of digital health (DH) solutions for the management of chronic diseases are quite heterogeneous and evidences around evaluating frameworks are inconsistent. An evidenced-based framework is needed to inform the evaluation process and rationale of such interventions. We aimed to explore the nature, extent and components of existing DH frameworks for chronic diseases.
METHODS: This review was conducted based on the five steps of Arksey and O'Malley's scoping review methodology. Out of 172 studies identified from, PubMed, Embase and Web of Science, 11 met our inclusion criteria. The reviewed studies developed DH frameworks for chronic diseases and published between 2010 and 2018.
RESULTS: According to WHO guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of DH interventions, we identified seven Conceptual frameworks, two Results frameworks, one Logical framework and one Theory of change. The frameworks developed for providing interventions such as self-management, achieving personal goals and reducing relapse for cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and severe mental health. A few studies reported evaluation of the frameworks using randomised clinical trials (n=3) and feasibility testing via Likert scale survey (n=2). A wide range of outcomes were reported including access to care, cost-effectiveness, behavioural outcomes, patient-provider communications, technology acceptance and user experience.
CONCLUSION: There is a lack of evidence on the application of consistent DH frameworks. Future research should address the use of evidence-based frameworks into the research design, monitoring and evaluation process. This review explores the nature of DH frameworks for the management of chronic diseases and provides examples to guide monitoring and evaluation of interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy and economic evaluation of delivery of care with tele-continuous EEG in critically ill patients: a multicentre, randomised controlled trial (Tele-cRCT) study protocol.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Some critically ill patients are confirmed by continuous electroencephalography (cEEG) monitoring that non-convulsive seizure (NCS) and/or non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) are causes of their depressed level of consciousness. Shortage of epilepsy specialists, especially in developing countries, is a major limiting factor in implementing cEEG in general practice. Delivery of care with tele-continous EEG (tele-cEEG) may be a potential solution as this allows specialists from a central facility to remotely assist local neurologists from distant areas in interpreting EEG findings and suggest proper treatment. No tele-cEEG programme has been implemented to help improve quality of care. Therefore, this study is conducted to assess the efficacy and cost utility of implementing tele-cEEG in critical care.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The Tele-cRCT study is a 3-year prospective, randomised, controlled, parallel, multicentre, superiority trial comparing delivery of care through 'Tele-cEEG' intervention with 'Tele-routine EEG (Tele-rEEG)' in patients with clinical suspicion of NCS/NCSE. A group of EEG specialists and a tele-EEG system were set up to remotely interpret EEG findings in six regional government hospitals across Thailand. The primary outcomes are functional neurological outcome (modified Rankin Scale, mRS), mortality rate and incidence of seizures. The secondary outcomes are cost utility, length of stay, emergency visit/readmission, impact on changing medical decisions and health professionals' perceptions about tele-cEEG implementation. Functional outcome (mRS) will be assessed at 3 and 7 days after recruitment, and again at time of hospital discharge, and at 90 days, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year. Costs and health-related quality of life will be assessed using the Thai version of the EuroQol-five dimensions-five levels (EQ-5D-5L) at hospital discharge, and at 90 days, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study has been approved by the ethics committees of the Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, and of Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, and registered on Thai Clinical Trials Registry. The results will be disseminated in a peer-reviewed journal.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: TCTR20181022002; preresults.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of the Use of Electronic Health Tools on the Psychological and Emotional Well-Being of Electronic Health Service Users (The Seventh Tromsø Study - Part 3): Population-Based Questionnaire Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Electronic health (eHealth) has been described as a silver bullet for addressing how challenges of the current health care system may be solved by technological solutions in future strategies and visions for modern health care. However, the evidence of its effects on service quality and cost effectiveness remains unclear. In addition, patients' psychological and emotional reactions to using eHealth tools are rarely addressed by the scientific literature.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess how the psychological and emotional well-being of eHealth service users is affected by the use of eHealth tools.
METHODS: We analyzed data from a population-based survey in Norway, conducted in the years 2015-2016 and representing 10,604 eHealth users aged over 40 years, to identify how the use of eHealth tools was associated with feeling anxious, confused, knowledgeable, or reassured. Associations between these four emotional outcomes and the use of four types of eHealth services (Web search engines, video search engines, health apps, and social media) were analyzed using logistic regression models.
RESULTS: The use of eHealth tools made 72.41% (6740/9308) of the participants feel more knowledgeable and 47.49% (4421/9308) of the participants feel more reassured about their health status. However, 25.69% (2392/9308) reported feeling more anxious and 27.88% (2595/9308) reported feeling more confused using eHealth tools. A high level of education and not having a full-time job were associated with positive reactions and emotions (feeling more knowledgeable and reassured), whereas low self-reported health status and not having enough friends who could provide help and support predicted negative reactions and emotions (ie, feeling anxious and confused). Overall, the positive emotional effects of eHealth use (feeling knowledgeable and reassured) were relatively more prevalent among users aged over 40 years than the negative emotional effects (ie, feeling anxious and confused). About one-fourth of eHealth users reported being more confused and anxious after using eHealth services.
CONCLUSIONS: The search for health information on the internet can be motivated by a range of factors and needs (not studied in this study), and people may experience a range of reactions and feelings following health information searching on the Web. Drawing on prior studies, we categorized reactions as positive and negative reactions. Some participants had negative reactions, which is challenging to resolve and should be taken into consideration by eHealth service providers when designing services (ie, including concrete information about how users can get more help and support). There is a need for more studies examining a greater range of reactions to online health information and factors that might predict negative reactions to health information on the Web.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Portal Adoption Program to Enhance Patient Satisfaction in Primary Care.
Abstract: Patient engagement technologies have become a focal point for defining quality in government and medical practice arenas. Patient portals are recognized as a promising mechanism to foster patient engagement and, as such, have become embedded in major healthcare reform initiatives. Despite sweeping implementation endeavors, portal adoption rates among patients remain low and create a significant gap in quality-based reimbursement. The purpose of this research was to evaluate a 12-week portal adoption program in the primary care setting featuring customized tablets with a patient-centric design for targeted point-of-contact portal registration. This project focused on three objectives: (1) achieve a 75% metric for portal adoption to align with highest tier adopters; (2) evaluate patient satisfaction for measuring perceived ease-of-use and usefulness of system; and (3) assess cost-effectiveness in determining sustainability and potential to replicate the initiative throughout other primary care settings. An outcome evaluation of the program revealed a 90% portal utilization rate, 94% new patient portal adoption rate, and 79% existing patient portal adoption rate during the data collection period. A χ analysis revealed a statistically significant difference in patient satisfaction scoring relative to efficiency, quality of care, and safety of information based on sex and insurance carrier demographics.
Label Included: 0

Title: Field Application of Digital Technologies for Health Assessment in the 10,000 Families Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: We field tested new-to-market portable, digital applications to assess hearing, pulmonary, and cognitive function to determine the feasibility of implementing these applications across a range of age groups in the pilot phase of the 10,000 Families Study (10KFS), a new Minnesota family-based prospective cohort study.
METHODS: We followed manufacturer recommended protocols for audiometry (SHOEBOX Inc), spirometry (NuvoAir), and the digital clock drawing test (dCDT; Digital Cognition Technologies Inc).
RESULTS: These digital devices were low cost and readily implemented in a 2.5-hour health fair visit with minimal training (2-3 hours) of study staff. To date, we have performed these measurements on 197 eligible 10KFS participants during an in-person clinic visit. A total of 37 children (age 4-17 years), 107 adults (18-64 years), and 53 seniors (≥65 years) were eligible to undergo hearing and pulmonary assessments. Children were less likely to successfully complete the hearing test (76%) compared with adults (86%) and seniors (89%). However, successful completion of the pulmonary assessment was high across all groups: 100% of children and seniors and 98% of adults. The dCDT was performed among those over the age of 40, and completion rates were 92% for those aged 41-64 and 94% for those ≥65 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Our field testing indicates these digital applications are easy and cost-effective to implement in epidemiologic studies.
IMPACT: Digital applications provide exciting opportunities to collect data in population studies. Issues related to data privacy, data access, and reproducibility of measurements need to be addressed before deploying digital applications in epidemiologic studies.See all articles in this CEBP Focus section, "Modernizing Population Science."
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a Rural Emergency Medical Service Project in Germany: Protocol for a Multimethod and Multiperspective Longitudinal Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: German emergency medical services are a 2-tiered system with paramedic-staffed ambulances as the primary response, supported by prehospital emergency doctors for life-threatening conditions. As in all European health care systems, German medical practitioners are in short supply, whereas the demand for timely emergency medical care is constantly growing. In rural areas, this has led to critical delays in the provision of emergency medical care. In particular, in cases of cardiac arrest, time is of the essence because, with each passing minute, the chance of survival with good neurological outcome decreases.
OBJECTIVE: The project has 4 main objectives: (1) reduce the therapy-free interval through widespread reinforcement of resuscitation skills and motivating the public to provide help (ie, bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation), (2) provide faster professional first aid in addition to rescue services through alerting trained first aiders by mobile phone, (3) make more emergency physicians available more quickly through introducing the tele-emergency physician system, and (4) enhance emergency care through improving the cooperation between statutory health insurance on-call medical services (German: Kassenärztlicher Bereitschaftsdienst) and emergency medical services.
METHODS: We will evaluate project implementation in a tripartite prospective and intervention study. First, in medical evaluation, we will assess the influences of various project measures on quality of care using multiple methods. Second, the economic evaluation will mainly focus on the valuation of inputs and outcomes of the different measures while considering various relevant indicators. Third, as part of the work and organizational analysis, we will assess important work- and occupational-related parameters, as well as network and regional indexes.
RESULTS: We started the project in 2017 and will complete enrollment in 2020. We finished the preanalysis phase in September 2018.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, implementation of the project will entail realigning emergency medicine in rural areas and enhancing the quality of medical emergency care in the long term. We expect the project to lead to a measurable increase in medical laypersons' individual motivation to provide resuscitation, to strengthen resuscitation skills, and to result in medical laypersons providing first aid much more frequently. Furthermore, we intend the project to decrease the therapy-free interval in cases of cardiac arrest by dispatching first aiders via mobile phones. Previous projects in urban regions have shown that the tele-emergency physician system can provide a higher availability and quality of emergency call-outs in regular health care. We expect a closer interrelation of emergency practices of statutory health insurance physicians with the rescue service to lead to better coordination of rescue and on-call services.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/14358.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Mobile Phone-Based Support Intervention to Increase Use of Postabortion Family Planning in Cambodia: Cost-Effectiveness Evaluation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite progress over the last decade, there is a continuing unmet need for contraception in Cambodia. Interventions delivered by mobile phone could help increase uptake and continuation of contraception, particularly among hard-to-reach populations, by providing interactive personalized support inexpensively wherever the person is located and whenever needed.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of mobile phone-based support added to standard postabortion family planning care in Cambodia, according to the results of the MOTIF (MObile Technology for Improved Family planning) trial.
METHODS: A model was created to estimate the costs and effects of the intervention versus standard care. We adopted a societal perspective when estimating costs, including direct and indirect costs for users. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated for the base case, as well as a deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis, which we compared against a range of likely cost-effectiveness thresholds.
RESULTS: The incremental cost of mobile phone-based support was estimated to be an additional US $8160.49 per 1000 clients, leading to an estimated 518 couple-years of protection (CYPs) gained per 1000 clients and 99 disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) averted. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was US $15.75 per additional CYP and US $82.57 per DALY averted. The model was most sensitive to personnel and mobile service costs. Assuming a range of cost-effectiveness thresholds from US $58 to US $176 for Cambodia, the probability of the intervention being cost-effective ranged from 11% to 95%.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that the cost-effectiveness of the intervention delivered by mobile phone assessed in the MOTIF trial lies within the estimated range of the cost-effectiveness threshold for Cambodia. When assessing value in interventions to improve the uptake and adherence of family planning services, the use of interactive mobile phone messaging and counselling for women who have had an abortion should be considered as an option by policy makers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01823861; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01823861.
Label Included: 0

Title: Workshop on the Development and Evaluation of Digital Therapeutics for Health Behavior Change: Science, Methods, and Projects.
Abstract: The health care field has integrated advances into digital technology at an accelerating pace to improve health behavior, health care delivery, and cost-effectiveness of care. The realm of behavioral science has embraced this evolution of digital health, allowing for an exciting roadmap for advancing care by addressing the many challenges to the field via technological innovations. Digital therapeutics offer the potential to extend the reach of effective interventions at reduced cost and patient burden and to increase the potency of existing interventions. Intervention models have included the use of digital tools as supplements to standard care models, as tools that can replace a portion of treatment as usual, or as stand-alone tools accessed outside of care settings or direct to the consumer. To advance the potential public health impact of this promising line of research, multiple areas warrant further development and investigation. The Center for Technology and Behavioral Health (CTBH), a P30 Center of Excellence supported by the National Institute on Drug Abuse at the National Institutes of Health, is an interdisciplinary research center at Dartmouth College focused on the goal of harnessing existing and emerging technologies to effectively develop and deliver evidence-based interventions for substance use and co-occurring disorders. The CTBH launched a series of workshops to encourage and expand multidisciplinary collaborations among Dartmouth scientists and international CTBH affiliates engaged in research related to digital technology and behavioral health (eg, addiction science, behavioral health intervention, technology development, computer science and engineering, digital security, health economics, and implementation science). This paper summarizes a workshop conducted on the Development and Evaluation of Digital Therapeutics for Behavior Change, which addressed (1) principles of behavior change, (2) methods of identifying and testing the underlying mechanisms of behavior change, (3) conceptual frameworks for optimizing applications for mental health and addictive behavior, and (4) the diversity of experimental methods and designs that are essential to the successful development and testing of digital therapeutics. Examples were presented of ongoing CTBH projects focused on identifying and improving the measurement of health behavior change mechanisms and the development and evaluation of digital therapeutics. In summary, the workshop showcased the myriad research targets that will be instrumental in promoting and accelerating progress in the field of digital health and health behavior change and illustrated how the CTBH provides a model of multidisciplinary leadership and collaboration that can facilitate innovative, science-based efforts to address the health behavior challenges afflicting our communities.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Economic Impact of Artificial Intelligence in Health Care: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Positive economic impact is a key decision factor in making the case for or against investing in an artificial intelligence (AI) solution in the health care industry. It is most relevant for the care provider and insurer as well as for the pharmaceutical and medical technology sectors. Although the broad economic impact of digital health solutions in general has been assessed many times in literature and the benefit for patients and society has also been analyzed, the specific economic impact of AI in health care has been addressed only sporadically.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to systematically review and summarize the cost-effectiveness studies dedicated to AI in health care and to assess whether they meet the established quality criteria.
METHODS: In a first step, the quality criteria for economic impact studies were defined based on the established and adapted criteria schemes for cost impact assessments. In a second step, a systematic literature review based on qualitative and quantitative inclusion and exclusion criteria was conducted to identify relevant publications for an in-depth analysis of the economic impact assessment. In a final step, the quality of the identified economic impact studies was evaluated based on the defined quality criteria for cost-effectiveness studies.
RESULTS: Very few publications have thoroughly addressed the economic impact assessment, and the economic assessment quality of the reviewed publications on AI shows severe methodological deficits. Only 6 out of 66 publications could be included in the second step of the analysis based on the inclusion criteria. Out of these 6 studies, none comprised a methodologically complete cost impact analysis. There are two areas for improvement in future studies. First, the initial investment and operational costs for the AI infrastructure and service need to be included. Second, alternatives to achieve similar impact must be evaluated to provide a comprehensive comparison.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic literature analysis proved that the existing impact assessments show methodological deficits and that upcoming evaluations require more comprehensive economic analyses to enable economic decisions for or against implementing AI technology in health care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Advances in pulmonary drug delivery devices for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Abstract: Introduction: Proper device selection is crucial for the clinical results of inhalation therapy. However, none of the available devices fully conforms to the requirements for delivering drug with increased patient adherence, and we are still looking for the ideal inhaler. For this reason, there are several ongoing technical innovations to improve inhaler devices.Areas covered: Progress in pulmonary drug delivery device technology is examined, focusing on innovations in pressurized metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers, nebulizers, and soft mist inhalers.Expert opinion: Both formulation improvements and new device technologies have been developed over the last couple of decades through an improved understanding of the mechanisms of aerosolization and lung deposition. Digital health is offering the potential to produce inhalers with a wider range of monitoring capabilities, but further studies are needed, in particular as regards the analysis of cost-effectiveness. Furthermore, there are still substantial issues that must be overcome in order to continually innovate and improve targeted inhaled drug delivery to the lungs. In any case, there are other potential therapeutic possibilities for COPD in development that may be administered by inhalation, whose clinical use requires advances and improvements in the devices used for administration.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telepresence-teleguidance to facilitate training and quality assurance in ERCP: a health economic modeling approach.
Abstract: Background and study aims The aims of this study was to document the clinical and training relevance of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreaticography (ERCP) teleguidance (as a clinical model for applied telemedicine) with health economic modeling methodologies. Methods Probabilities and consequences of complications after ERCP performed by either a novice-trainee or supported through teleguidance (TM) by an expert formed the basis of the health economic model. Results The main clinical and economic outcomes originated from the base case scenario representing a low-volume center. In the cohort the patient age was 62 years, 58 % were females, the expert was doing ≥ 250 ERCPs per year and 50 for the novice-trainee. The expert knowledge transferred was set to 50 % and the average complexity grade to 1.98. Given a willingness to pay threshold of 56,180 USD/ quality-adjusted life years (QALY), the probability of cost-effectiveness of TM assistance was 98.9 %. The probability of a QALY gain for patients having an ERCP, to which was added TM, was 91.6 %. Adding TM saved on an average 111.2 USD (95 % CI 959 to 1021 SEK) per patient, and remained cost-effective basically insensitive to the level of willingness to pay. Conclusion Teleguidance during an ERCP procedure has the potential to be the prefered option in many low- to medium-volume hospitals. The main mechanisms behind these effects are positive impact on several adverse patient outcomes, QALY increase, and decreased costs. TM should be considered for integration into future teaching curriculums in advanced upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficiency of telemedicine for acute stroke: a cost-effectiveness analysis from a French pilot study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Telestroke is an effective way to improve care and health outcomes for stroke patients. This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of a French telestroke network.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was built using population-based data. We compared short-term clinical outcomes and costs for the management of acute ischemic stroke patients before and after the implementation of a telestroke network from the point of view of the national health insurance system. Three effectiveness endpoints were used: hospital death, death at 3 months, and severe disability 3 months after stroke (assessed with the modified Rankin scale). Most clinical and economic parameters were estimated from the medical files of 742 retrospectively included patients. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The analyses revealed that the telestroke strategy was more effective and slightly more costly than the reference strategy (25 disability cases avoided per 1,000 at 3 months, 6.7 avoided hospital deaths, and 13 avoided deaths at 3 months for an extra cost of EUR 97, EUR 138, and EUR 154, respectively). The results remained robust in the sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: In France, telestroke is an effective strategy for improving patient outcomes and, despite the extra cost, it has a legitimate place in the national health care system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating Partial Series Childhood Vaccination Services in a Mobile Clinic Setting.
Abstract: This study aims to evaluate the cost-benefit of vaccination services, mostly partial series administration, provided by a mobile clinic program (MCP) in Houston for children of transient and low-income families. The study included 469 patients who visited the mobile clinics on regular service days in 2 study periods in 2014 and 836 patients who attended vaccination events in the summer of 2014. The benefit of partial series vaccination was estimated based on vaccine efficacy/effectiveness data. Our conservative cost-benefit estimates show that, compared with office-based settings, every dollar spent on vaccination by the MCP would result in $0.9 societal cost averted as an incremental benefit in regular service days and $3.7 during vaccination-only events. To further improve the cost-benefit of vaccination services in the MCP, decision-makers and stakeholders may consider improving work efficiency during regular service days or hosting more vaccination events.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of the Collaborative Care to Preserve Performance in Cancer (COPE) trial tele-rehabilitation interventions for patients with advanced cancers.
Abstract: PURPOSE: The purpose of this analysis was to determine the cost-effectiveness of a Collaborative Care Model (CCM)-based, centralized telecare approach to delivering rehabilitation services to late-stage cancer patients experiencing functional limitations.
METHODS: Data for this analysis came from the Collaborative Care to Preserve Performance in Cancer (COPE) trial, a randomized control trial of 516 patients assigned to: (a) a control group (arm A), (b) tele-rehabilitation (arm B), and (c) tele-rehabilitation plus pharmacological pain management (arm C). Patient quality of life was measured using the EQ-5D-3L at baseline, 3-month, and 6-month follow-up. Direct intervention costs were measured from the experience of the trial. Participants' hospitalization data were obtained from their medical records, and costs associated with these encounters were estimated from unit cost data and hospital-associated utilization information found in the literature. A secondary analysis of total utilization costs was conducted for the subset of COPE trial patients for whom comprehensive cost capture was possible.
RESULTS: In the intervention-only model, tele-rehabilitation (arm B) was found to be the dominant strategy, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $15 494/QALY. At the $100 000 willingness-to-pay threshold, this tele-rehabilitation was the cost-effective strategy in 95.4% of simulations. It was found to be cost saving compared to enhanced usual care once the downstream hospitalization costs were taken into account. In the total cost analysis, total inpatient hospitalization costs were significantly lower in both tele-rehabilitation (arm B) and tele-rehabilitation plus pain management (arm C) compared to control (arm A), (P = .048).
CONCLUSION: The delivery of a CCM-based, centralized tele-rehabilitation intervention to patients with advanced stage cancer is highly cost-effective. Clinicians and care teams working with this vulnerable population should consider incorporating such interventions into their patient care plans.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital health professions education on chronic wound management: A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Continuing education is crucial for healthcare professionals to keep up with research but attending classroom lectures is a major barrier. Chronic wound management is increasingly relevant for continuous professional training. Digital education offers learning tailored to individual needs and could be an effective alternative to healthcare professionals' training. However, the effectiveness of digital education for chronic wound management training has not been explored.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of digital education in improving healthcare professionals' knowledge, attitudes, practical skills and behaviour change on chronic wound management, and their satisfaction with the intervention.
DESIGN: This systematic review follows Cochrane methodology and is one of a series of reviews on the use of digital education for health professions education. Protocol registration: PROSPERO CRD42018109971 DATA SOURCES: Searches were conducted in MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, ERIC, PsycINFO, CINAHL, CENTRAL, and ProQuest Dissertation and Theses Database.
REVIEW METHODS: We included randomised control trials, cluster randomised control trials and quasi-randomised control trials comparing digital or blended education with traditional learning, no intervention or other forms of digital or blended education for pre- or post-registration healthcare professionals in chronic wound management. A narrative summary of findings is presented.
RESULTS: Seven studies (1,404 participants) were included. All studies investigated interventions for nursing students or professionals working in hospitals or community settings, and all but one study focused on pressure ulcers. Five studies (935 participants) assessed post-intervention knowledge, and indicated that digital education was more effective than no intervention, while blended learning was superior to exclusive digital education. Three studies (543 participants) assessed post-intervention skills and reported mixed results. One study (140 participants) compared post-intervention behaviour change and satisfaction with blended and online digital education, and reported no difference in behaviour between the groups, and higher satisfaction with blended education. For knowledge retention up to six months, digital education was more effective than no intervention, while blended learning was superior to digital education. The risk of bias in included studies was mostly high or unclear.
CONCLUSIONS: Digital education on chronic wound management appears to be less effective than blended education and more effective than no intervention in improving knowledge among nurses and nursing students. Data for other outcomes is scarce and inconclusive. Future studies should assess participants' skills, attitudes, satisfaction and behaviour change; cost-effectiveness and potential untoward effects of digital education, compare digital education to other learning modalities and include other healthcare professionals in diverse clinical settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Varenicline versus nicotine replacement therapy for long-term smoking cessation: an observational study using the Clinical Practice Research Datalink.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Smoking is the leading avoidable cause of illness and premature mortality. The first-line treatments for smoking cessation are nicotine replacement therapy and varenicline. Meta-analyses of experimental studies have shown that participants allocated to the varenicline group were 1.57 times (95% confidence interval 1.29 to 1.91 times) as likely to be abstinent 6 months after treatment as those allocated to the nicotine replacement therapy group. However, there is limited evidence about the effectiveness of varenicline when prescribed in primary care. We investigated the effectiveness and rate of adverse events of these medicines in the general population.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effect of prescribing varenicline on smoking cessation rates and health outcomes.
DATA SOURCES: Clinical Practice Research Datalink.
METHODS: We conducted an observational cohort study using electronic medical records from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink. We extracted data on all patients who were prescribed varenicline or nicotine replacement therapy after 1 September 2006 who were aged ≥ 18 years. We investigated the effects of varenicline on smoking cessation, all-cause mortality and cause-specific mortality and hospitalisation for: (1) chronic lung disease, (2) lung cancer, (3) coronary heart disease, (4) pneumonia, (5) cerebrovascular disease, (6) diabetes, and (7) external causes; primary care diagnosis of myocardial infarction, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, depression, or prescription for anxiety; weight in kg; general practitioner and hospital attendance. Our primary outcome was smoking cessation 2 years after the first prescription. We investigated the baseline differences between patients prescribed varenicline and patients prescribed nicotine replacement therapy. We report results using multivariable-adjusted, propensity score and instrumental variable regression. Finally, we developed methods to assess the relative bias of the different statistical methods we used.
RESULTS: People prescribed varenicline were healthier at baseline than those prescribed nicotine replacement therapy in almost all characteristics, which highlighted the potential for residual confounding. Our instrumental variable analysis results found little evidence that patients prescribed varenicline had lower mortality 2 years after their first prescription (risk difference 0.67, 95% confidence interval -0.11 to 1.46) than those prescribed nicotine replacement therapy. They had similar rates of all-cause hospitalisation, incident primary care diagnoses of myocardial infarction and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. People prescribed varenicline subsequently attended primary care less frequently. Patients prescribed varenicline were more likely (odds ratio 1.46, 95% confidence interval 1.42 to 1.50) to be abstinent 6 months after treatment than those prescribed nicotine replacement therapy when estimated using multivariable-adjusted for baseline covariates. Patients from more deprived areas were less likely to be prescribed varenicline. However, varenicline had similar effectiveness for these groups.
CONCLUSION: Patients prescribed varenicline in primary care were more likely to quit smoking than those prescribed nicotine replacement therapy, but there was little evidence that they had lower rates of mortality or morbidity in the 4 years following the first prescription. There was little evidence of heterogeneity in effectiveness across the population.
FUTURE WORK: Future research should investigate the decline in prescribing of smoking cessation products; develop an optimal treatment algorithm for smoking cessation; use methods for using instruments with survival outcomes; and develop methods for comparing multivariable-adjusted and instrumental variable estimates.
LIMITATIONS: Not all of our code lists were validated, body mass index and Index of Multiple Deprivation had missing values, our results may suffer from residual confounding, and we had no information on treatment adherence.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered as NCT02681848.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 24, No. 9. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Automated Identification and Extraction of Exercise Treadmill Test Results.
Abstract: Background Noninvasive cardiac tests, including exercise treadmill tests (ETTs), are commonly utilized in the evaluation of patients in the emergency department with suspected acute coronary syndrome. However, there are ongoing debates on their clinical utility and cost-effectiveness. It is important to be able to use ETT results for research, but manual review is prohibitively time-consuming for large studies. We developed and validated an automated method to interpret ETT results from electronic health records. To demonstrate the algorithm's utility, we tested the associations between ETT results with 30-day patient outcomes in a large population. Methods and Results A retrospective analysis of adult emergency department encounters resulting in an ETT within 30 days was performed. A set of randomly selected reports were double-blind reviewed by 2 physicians to validate a natural language processing algorithm designed to categorize ETT results into normal, ischemic, nondiagnostic, and equivocal categories. Natural language processing then searched and categorized results of 5214 ETT reports. The natural language processing algorithm achieved 96.4% sensitivity and 94.8% specificity in identifying normal versus all other categories. The rates of 30-day death or acute myocardial infarction varied (P<0.001) by categories for normal (0.08%), ischemic (1.9%), nondiagnostic (0.77%), and equivocal (0.58%) groups achieving good discrimination (C-statistic, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.7-0.92). Conclusions Natural language processing is an accurate and efficient strategy to facilitate large-scale outcome studies of noninvasive cardiac tests. We found that most patients are at low risk and have normal ETT results, while those with abnormal, nondiagnostic, or equivocal results have slightly higher risks and warrant future investigation.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Video Consultation Hours in the Statutory Accident Insurance - Application Possibilities and Economic Evaluation].
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Video consultations are becoming more and more important for health care providers as they enable new treatment options. Since 2017 video consultations have been used by the public health insurance companies in Germany. However, similar options are lacking in the employer's liability insurance association (BG in Germany) health insurance system. The aim of this article is to present and discuss possible applications of video consultations in the latter system and to evaluate economic advantages.
METHODS: Possible applications of video consultations are discussed in the context of feasibility, potential benefits and the existing scale of fees for physicians (in Germany UV-GOÄ).
RESULTS: Video consultations can be used for follow-up evaluations as well as preparation for initial medical examinations especially in complex cases and for case conferences. Even though video consultations are not included in the reimbursement system, similar CPT codes (current procedural terminology) already do exist.
CONCLUSIONS: Video consultations might help improve the quality and reduce the costs of the public health insurance system. Furthermore, since video consultations can be expected to become more important in the future, they should be included as a standard tool in the employer's liability insurance association insurance system and an adequate reimbursement system be established.
Label Included: 0

Title: Designing a mHealth clinical decision support system for Parkinson's disease: a theoretically grounded user needs approach.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite the established evidence and theoretical advances explaining human judgments under uncertainty, developments of mobile health (mHealth) Clinical Decision Support Systems (CDSS) have not explicitly applied the psychology of decision making to the study of user needs. We report on a user needs approach to develop a prototype of a mHealth CDSS for Parkinson's disease (PD), which is theoretically grounded in the psychological literature about expert decision making and judgement under uncertainty.
METHODS: A suite of user needs studies was conducted in 4 European countries (Greece, Italy, Slovenia, the UK) prior to the development of PD_Manager, a mHealth-based CDSS designed for Parkinson's disease, using wireless technology. Study 1 undertook Hierarchical Task Analysis (HTA) including elicitation of user needs, cognitive demands and perceived risks/benefits (ethical considerations) associated with the proposed CDSS, through structured interviews of prescribing clinicians (N = 47). Study 2 carried out computational modelling of prescribing clinicians' (N = 12) decision strategies based on social judgment theory. Study 3 was a vignette study of prescribing clinicians' (N = 18) willingness to change treatment based on either self-reported symptoms data, devices-generated symptoms data or combinations of both.
RESULTS: Study 1 indicated that system development should move away from the traditional silos of 'motor' and 'non-motor' symptom evaluations and suggest that presenting data on symptoms according to goal-based domains would be the most beneficial approach, the most important being patients' overall Quality of Life (QoL). The computational modelling in Study 2 extrapolated different factor combinations when making judgements about different questions. Study 3 indicated that the clinicians were equally likely to change the care plan based on information about the change in the patient's condition from the patient's self-report and the wearable devices.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our approach, we could formulate the following principles of mHealth design: 1) enabling shared decision making between the clinician, patient and the carer; 2) flexibility that accounts for diagnostic and treatment variation among clinicians; 3) monitoring of information integration from multiple sources. Our approach highlighted the central importance of the patient-clinician relationship in clinical decision making and the relevance of theoretical as opposed to algorithm (technology)-based modelling of human judgment.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of Nursing Interventions using Standardized Nursing Terminologies: An Integrative Review.
Abstract: The purpose of this integrative review is to synthesize recent literature that used NANDA International diagnoses, Nursing Interventions Classification (NIC), and Nursing Outcomes Classification (NOC) to determine the effectiveness of nursing interventions and cost-analysis and to identify the direction for future effectiveness research using standardized nursing terminologies (SNTs). A search was performed using the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Scopus, and KoreaMed, covering the period from 2003 to 2018. A total 267 articles were identified, and 24 articles were analyzed for this review. Eighteen studies evaluated the effectiveness of nursing interventions based on outcomes, and of those 18 studies, four examined the effectiveness based on the development of NNN linkages. Six studies analyzed the cost of nursing interventions. Integrating SNTs into electronic health records (EHRs), developing NNN linkages, and further effectiveness studies using SNTs are required to determine the value of nursing care to improve patient outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating a remote patient monitoring program for automated peritoneal dialysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The benefits of automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) have been established, but patient adherence to treatment remains a concern. Remote patient monitoring (RPM) programs are a potential solution; however, the cost implications are not well established. This study modeled, from the payer perspective, expected net costs and clinical consequences of a novel RPM program in Colombia.
METHODS: Amarkov model was used to project costs and clinical outcomes for APD patients with and without RPM. Clinical inputs were directly estimated from Renal Care Services data or taken from the literature. Dialysis costs were estimated from national fees. Inpatient costs were obtained from a recent Colombian study. The model projected overall direct costs and several clinical outcomes. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (DSA and PSA) were also conducted to characterize uncertainty in the results.
RESULTS: The model projected that the implementation of an RPM program costing US$35 per month in a cohort of 100 APD patients over 1 year would save US$121,233. The model also projected 31 additional months free of complications, 27 fewer hospitalizations, 518 fewer hospitalization days, and 6 fewer peritonitis episodes. In the DSA, results were most sensitive to hospitalization rates and days of hospitalization, but cost savings were robust. The PSA found there was a 91% chance for the RPM program to be cost saving.
CONCLUSION: The results of the model suggest that RPM is cost-effective in APD patients which should be verified by a rigorous prospective cost analysis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost and cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions for the prevention and control of type 2 diabetes mellitus: A systematic review.
Abstract: The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus continues to rise and simultaneously technology has contributed to the growth of MHealth interventions for its prevention, monitoring and management. This systematic review aimed to summarize and evaluate the quality of the published evidence on cost and cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions for T2DM. A systematic literature search of PubMed, EMBASE, and Web of Science was conducted for papers up to end of April 2019. We included all partial or full economic evaluations providing cost or cost-effectiveness results for mHealth interventions targeting individuals diagnosed with, or at risk of, type 2 diabetes mellitus. Twenty-three studies met the inclusion criteria. Intervention cost varied substantially based on the type and numbers or combination of technologies used, ranging from 1.8 INT $ to 10101.1 INT $ per patient per year. The studies which presented cost effectiveness results demonstrated highly cost-effective interventions, with cost per QALY gained ranging from 0.4 to 62.5 percent of GDP per capita of the country. The quality of partial economic evaluations was on average lower than that of full economic evaluations. Cost of mHealth interventions varied substantially based on type and combination of technology used, however, where cost-effectiveness results were reported, the intervention was cost-effective. PROSPERO registration number: CRD42019123476; Registered: 27/01/2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Treatment of Depression in Primary Care with Computerized Psychological Therapies: Systematic Reviews.
Abstract: Depression is one of the most important causes of disability due to illness in our environment. The primary care health system receives a high percentage of this consultation about psychological distress. Often this end in a pharmacological overtreatment in patients with mild depression, due to a lack of access to alternative tools for management. To analyze the evidence that exists by now about the effectiveness of computerized psychological therapies, in people with depression in primary care setting. The search process was mainly done through MEDLINE and Cochrane using keywords such as: "depression", "treatment", "primary care", "online", "internet", "computerized", "Cognitive Behavioral Therapy" and delimiting the search by years and types of studies. The Oxman quality scale was used to analyze quality of Systematic Reviews (SR). 11 previous SR were analyzed. Almost all research is experimental and has not been implemented in the public health network except in the United Kingdom, where there is a tradition in the use of the Beating the Blues program. It requires research in our country and development of programs in Spanish, or adaptation of those of other countries, to test the effectiveness in our health system and to study, in turn, the cost-efficiency. But it is proven to be effective in reducing depressive symptoms and must be study as a possible tool to be introduced in the management of depression in non-specialized care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluations Informed Exclusively by Real World Data: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Economic evaluations using Real World Data (RWD) has been increasing in the very recent years, however, this source of information has several advantages and limitations. The aim of this review was to assess the quality of full economic evaluations (EE) developed using RWD. A systematic review was carried out through articles from the following databases: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science and Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. Included were studies that employed RWD for both costs and effectiveness. Methodological quality of the studies was assessed using the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist. Of the 14,011 studies identified, 93 were included. Roughly half of the studies were carried out in a hospital setting. The most frequently assessed illnesses were neoplasms while the most evaluated interventions were pharmacological. The main source of costs and effects of RWD were information systems. The most frequent clinical outcome was survival. Some 47% of studies met at least 80% of CHEERS criteria. Studies were conducted with samples of 100-1000 patients or more, were randomized, and those that reported bias controls were those that fulfilled most CHEERS criteria. In conclusion, fewer than half the studies met 80% of the CHEERS checklist criteria.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile health application to support CPAP therapy in obstructive sleep apnoea: design, feasibility and perspectives.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Current continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) devices can be monitored remotely; however, in-person visits are kept for clinical follow-up in order to promote CPAP use and resolve potential side-effects. Mobile health is a promising way to provide remote and easy clinical control for CPAP follow-up and support. We aimed to evaluate the feasibility and acceptance by obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) patients and healthcare professionals of a newly designed mobile app (Appnea-Q) to promote clinical control through a self-monitoring tool for patients with CPAP supervised by sleep professionals.
METHODS: Appnea-Q incorporates a simple follow-up questionnaire with automated responses, together with frequent problems and lifestyle recommendations sections. Feasibility, acceptance and usefulness were assessed. First, an internal validation was performed during outpatient CPAP follow-up visits with sleep professionals from various sleep units. Second, an external validation was performed in a subgroup of 15 patients at home.
RESULTS: Most patients (n=75) considered the app useful and were willing to use it and recommend it (72-88%). Up to 64.87% agreed on its capacity to reduce hospital visits. Appnea-Q was rated as acceptable (79.37±19.29) by the system usability score. Sleep professionals (n=30) concurred on its usefulness for OSA patient follow-up, particularly during the first month of CPAP therapy. The external validation showed its feasibility among 11 out of 15 patients and their data were received accordingly on the professionals' web platform.
CONCLUSIONS: According to our validation process, and the viewpoints of the patients and professionals, our new mobile app is a feasible and well-received tool for personal OSA management. Future clinical trials should substantiate its performance and cost-effectiveness in the clinical arena.
Label Included: 0

Title: ESR/ERS statement paper on lung cancer screening.
Abstract: In Europe, lung cancer ranks third among the most common cancers, remaining the biggest killer. Since the publication of the first European Society of Radiology and European Respiratory Society joint white paper on lung cancer screening (LCS) in 2015, many new findings have been published and discussions have increased considerably. Thus, this updated expert opinion represents a narrative, non-systematic review of the evidence from LCS trials and description of the current practice of LCS as well as aspects that have not received adequate attention until now. Reaching out to the potential participants (persons at high risk), optimal communication and shared decision-making will be key starting points. Furthermore, standards for infrastructure, pathways and quality assurance are pivotal, including promoting tobacco cessation, benefits and harms, overdiagnosis, quality, minimum radiation exposure, definition of management of positive screen results and incidental findings linked to respective actions as well as cost-effectiveness. This requires a multidisciplinary team with experts from pulmonology and radiology as well as thoracic oncologists, thoracic surgeons, pathologists, family doctors, patient representatives and others. The ESR and ERS agree that Europe's health systems need to adapt to allow citizens to benefit from organised pathways, rather than unsupervised initiatives, to allow early diagnosis of lung cancer and reduce the mortality rate. Now is the time to set up and conduct demonstration programmes focusing, among other points, on methodology, standardisation, tobacco cessation, education on healthy lifestyle, cost-effectiveness and a central registry.Key Points• Pulmonologists and radiologists both have key roles in the set up of multidisciplinary LCS teams with experts from many other fields.• Pulmonologists identify people eligible for LCS, reach out to family doctors, share the decision-making process and promote tobacco cessation.• Radiologists ensure appropriate image quality, minimum dose and a standardised reading/reporting algorithm, together with a clear definition of a "positive screen".• Strict algorithms define the exact management of screen-detected nodules and incidental findings.• For LCS to be (cost-)effective, it has to target a population defined by risk prediction models.
Label Included: 0

Title: ESR/ERS statement paper on lung cancer screening.
Abstract: In Europe, lung cancer ranks third among the most common cancers, remaining the biggest killer. Since the publication of the first European Society of Radiology and European Respiratory Society joint white paper on lung cancer screening (LCS) in 2015, many new findings have been published and discussions have increased considerably. Thus, this updated expert opinion represents a narrative, non-systematic review of the evidence from LCS trials and description of the current practice of LCS as well as aspects that have not received adequate attention until now. Reaching out to the potential participants (persons at high risk), optimal communication and shared decision-making will be key starting points. Furthermore, standards for infrastructure, pathways and quality assurance are pivotal, including promoting tobacco cessation, benefits and harms, overdiagnosis, quality, minimum radiation exposure, definition of management of positive screen results and incidental findings linked to respective actions as well as cost-effectiveness. This requires a multidisciplinary team with experts from pulmonology and radiology as well as thoracic oncologists, thoracic surgeons, pathologists, family doctors, patient representatives and others. The ESR and ERS agree that Europe's health systems need to adapt to allow citizens to benefit from organised pathways, rather than unsupervised initiatives, to allow early diagnosis of lung cancer and reduce the mortality rate. Now is the time to set up and conduct demonstration programmes focusing, among other points, on methodology, standardisation, tobacco cessation, education on healthy lifestyle, cost-effectiveness and a central registry.
Label Included: 0

Title: Will applications on smartphones allow a generalization of telemedicine?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine is one of the healthcare sectors that has developed the most in recent years. Currently, telemedicine is mostly used for patients who have difficulty attending medical consultations because of where they live (teleconsultation) or for specialist referrals when no specialist of a given discipline is locally available (telexpertise). However, the use of specific equipment (with dedicated cameras, screens, and computers) and the need for institutional infrastructure made the deployment and use of these systems expensive and rigid. Although many telemedicine systems have been tested, most have not generally gone beyond local projects. Our hypothesis is that the use of smartphones will allow health care providers to overcome some of the limitations that we have exposed, thus allowing the generalization of telemedicine.
MAIN BODY: This paper addresses the problem of telemedicine applications, the market of which is growing fast. Their development may completely transform the organization of healthcare systems, change the way patients are managed and revolutionize prevention. This new organization should facilitate the lives of both patients and doctors. In this paper, we examine why telemedicine has failed for years to take its rightful place in many European healthcare systems although there was a real need. By developing the example of France, this article analyses the reasons most commonly put forth: the administrative and legal difficulties, and the lack of funding. We argue that the real reason telemedicine struggled to find its place was because the technology was not close enough to the patient.
CONCLUSION: Finally, we explain how the development of smartphones and their current ubiquitousness should allow the generalization of telemedicine in France and on a global scale.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of a WeChat-Based Intervention (Run4Love) on Depressive Symptoms Among People Living With HIV in China: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People living with HIV (PLWH) have high rates of depressive symptoms. However, only a few effective mental health interventions exist for this vulnerable population.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of a WeChat-based intervention, Run4Love, with a randomized controlled trial among 300 people living with HIV and depression (PLWHD) in China.
METHODS: We recruited PLWH from the HIV outpatient clinic in South China. Participants were screened based on the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression (CES-D) scale. Those who scored 16 or higher were eligible to participate. A total of 300 eligible patients were enrolled. After obtaining informed consent from the participants, completion of a baseline survey, and collection of participants' hair samples for measuring cortisol, the participants were randomly assigned to an intervention or a control group in a 1:1 ratio. The intervention group received the Run4Love program, delivered via the popular social media app WeChat. Cognitive behavioral stress management courses and weekly reminders of exercise were delivered in a multimedia format. Participants' progress was monitored with timely and tailored feedback. The control group received usual care and a brochure on nutrition for PLWH. Data were collected at 3, 6, and 9 months. The primary outcome was depression, which was measured by a validated instrument.
RESULTS: Participants in the intervention and control groups were comparable at baseline; about 91.3% (139/150), 88.3% (132/150), and 86.7% (130/150) participants completed the 3-, 6-, and 9-month follow-ups, respectively. At the 3-month follow-up, a significant reduction in CES-D score was observed in the intervention group (from 23.9 to 17.7 vs from 24.3 to 23.8; mean difference=-5.77, 95% CI -7.82 to -3.71; P<.001; standard effect size d=0.66). The mean changes in CES-D score from baseline to the 6- and 9-month follow-ups between the two groups remained statistically significant. No adverse events were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: The WeChat-based mobile health (mHealth) intervention Run4Love significantly reduced depressive symptoms among PLWHD, and the effect was sustained. An app-based mHealth intervention could provide a feasible therapeutic option for many PLWHD in resource-limited settings. Further research is needed to assess generalizability and cost-effectiveness of this intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR-IPR-17012606; http://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.aspx?proj=21019 (Archived by WebCite at https://www.webcitation.org/78Bw2vouF).
Label Included: 0

Title: Teleophthalmology for the elderly population: A review of the literature.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Ophthalmology is one of the most requested medical speciality services in the elderly population. Although numerous studies have shown the potentials of telemedicine for the provision of ophthalmology services, the extent of its usability in older adults and the aged population is not clear. The aim of this study was to investigate the characteristics and usability features of teleophthalmology for the elderly population.
METHOD: We searched PubMed, Embase, Scopus and CINAHL for relevant studies since 2008. Forty-five papers met the eligibility criteria and included in this review. We used a multifaceted model to extract the data and analyze findings by cross-tabulation.
RESULTS: The majority of the reviewed papers included participants of 65 years of age or older. Most of the studies were conducted in the USA (38 %). Diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration and cataract were the most researched eye diseases, and among the imaging technologies, retinal photography had been used the most (72 %). The studies showed teleophthalmology can improve access to specialty care, reduce the number of unnecessary visits, alleviate overloads on treatment centers, and provide more comprehensive exams. It also made services cost-saving for stakeholders and cost-effective in rural areas. However, teleophthalmology was not cost-effective for patients above 80 and low-density population areas.
CONCLUSION: Evidence is lacking for the usability and effectiveness of teleophthalmology for the elderly population. The findings suggest that primary care providers in collaboration with ophthalmologists could provide more effective eye care to elderly population. Appropriate training is also necessary for primary care doctors to manage and refer older patients in a timely manner. Diagnostic value and cost-effective imaging modalities which are the core of the teleophthalmology, can be enhanced by image processing techniques and artificial intelligence.
Label Included: 0

Title: Designing a multifaceted telehealth intervention for a rural population using a model for developing complex interventions in nursing.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telehealth interventions offer an evidenced-based approach to providing cost-effective care, education, and timely communication at a distance. Yet, despite its widespread use, telehealth has not reached full potential, especially in rural areas, due to the complex process of designing and implementing telehealth programs. The objective of this paper is to explore the use of a theory-based approach, the Model for Developing Complex Interventions in Nursing, to design a pilot telehealth intervention program for a rural population with multiple chronic conditions.
METHODS: In order to develop a robust, evidenced based intervention that suits the needs of the community, stakeholders, and healthcare agencies involved, a design team comprised of state representatives, telehealth experts, and patient advocates was convened. Each design team meeting was guided by major model constructs (i.e., problem identification, defining the target population and objectives, measurement theory selection, building and planning the intervention protocol). Overarching the process was a review of the literature to ensure that the developed intervention was congruent with evidence-based practice and underlying the entire process was scope of practice considerations.
RESULTS: Ten design team meetings were held over a six-month period. An adaptive pilot intervention targeting home and community-based Medicaid Waiver Program participants in a rural environment with a primary objective of preventing re-institutionalizations was developed and accepted for implementation. To promote intervention effectiveness, asynchronous (i.e., remote patient monitoring) and synchronous (i.e., nursing assessment of pain and mental health and care coordination) telehealth approaches were selected to address the multiple comorbidities of the target population. An economic evaluation plan was developed and included in the pilot program to assess intervention cost efficiency.
CONCLUSIONS: The Model for Developing Complex Interventions in Nursing provided a simple, structured process for designing a multifaceted telehealth intervention to minimize re-institutionalization of participants with multiple chronic conditions. This structured process may promote efficient development of other complex telehealth interventions in time and resource constrained settings. This paper provides detailed examples of how the model was operationalized.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of teledermatology: Where are we now, and what are the barriers to adoption?
Abstract: There has been rapid growth in teledermatology over the past decade, and teledermatology services are increasingly being used to support patient care across a variety of care settings. Teledermatology has the potential to increase access to high-quality dermatologic care while maintaining clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness. Recent expansions in telemedicine reimbursement from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) ensure that teledermatology will play an increasingly prominent role in patient care. Therefore, it is important that dermatologists be well informed of both the promises of teledermatology and the potential practice challenges a continuously evolving mode of care delivery brings. In this article, we will review the evidence on the clinical and cost-effectiveness of teledermatology and we will discuss system-level and practice-level barriers to successful teledermatology implementation as well as potential implications for dermatologists.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital Diabetes Care System Observations from a Pilot Evaluation Study in Vietnam.
Abstract: Digital technologies are gaining an important role in the management of patients with diabetes. We assessed clinical outcomes and user satisfaction of incorporating a digital diabetes care system in diabetes clinics of a developing country. The system integrated a wireless blood glucose monitor that communicates data to any smartphone utilizing a patented acoustic data transfer method, a mobile-app, and cloud-based software that stores, analyzes, and presents data. Five hospital endocrinology clinics in Vietnam sequentially recruited all patients willing to join the study, providing they had a smartphone and access to internet connectivity. Face-to-face visits were conducted at baseline and at 12 weeks, with monthly digital visits scheduled in the interim and additional digital visits performed as needed. HbA1c levels were measured at baseline and at 12 weeks (±20 days). The study included 300 patients of whom 279 completed the evaluation. Average glucose levels declined from 170.4 ± 64.6 mg/dL in the first 2 weeks to 150.8 ± 53.2 mg/dL in the last 2 weeks (n = 221; p < 0.001). HbA1c levels at baseline and 12 weeks declined from 8.3% ± 1.9% to 7.6% ± 1.3% (n = 126; p < 0.001). The digital solution was broadly accepted by both patients and healthcare professionals and improved glycemic outcomes. The durability, scalability, and cost-effectiveness of this approach merits further study.
Label Included: 0

Title: Assess the Performance and Cost-Effectiveness of LACE and HOSPITAL Re-Admission Prediction Models as a Risk Management Tool for Home Care Patients: An Evaluation Study of a Medical Center Affiliated Home Care Unit in Taiwan.
Abstract: The LACE index and HOSPITAL score models are the two most commonly used prediction models identifying patients at high risk of readmission with limited information for home care patients. This study compares the effectiveness of these two models in predicting 30-day readmission following acute hospitalization of such patients in Taiwan. A cohort of 57 home care patients were enrolled and followed-up for one year. We compared calibration, discrimination (area under the receiver operating curve, AUC), and net reclassification improvement (NRI) to identify patients at risk of 30-day readmission for both models. Moreover, the cost-effectiveness of the models was evaluated using microsimulation analysis. A total of 22 readmissions occurred after 87 acute hospitalizations during the study period (readmission rate = 25.2%). While the LACE score had poor discrimination (AUC = 0.598, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.488-0.702), the HOSPITAL score achieved helpful discrimination (AUC = 0.691, 95% CI = 0.582-0.785). Moreover, the HOSPITAL score had improved the risk prediction in 38.3% of the patients, compared with the LACE index (NRI = 0.383, 95% CI = 0.068-0.697, p = 0.017). Both prediction models effectively reduced readmission rates compared to an attending physician's model (readmission rate reduction: LACE, 39.2%; HOSPITAL, 43.4%; physician, 10.1%; p < 0.001). The HOSPITAL score provides a better prediction of readmission and has potential as a risk management tool for home care patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Does Antiretroviral Therapy Packaging Matter? Perceptions and Preferences of Antiretroviral Therapy Packaging for People Living with HIV in Northern Tanzania.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Despite improvements in treatment (eg, reduction in pill intake), antiretroviral therapy (ART) is dispensed in socially inefficient and uneconomical packaging. To make pills less conspicuous and decrease the risk of being stigmatized, people living with HIV (PLWH) often engage in self-repackaging - the practice of transferring ART from original packaging to alternative containers. This behavior has been associated with ART nonadherence and failure to achieve viral load suppression. While much of the literature on ART packaging has centered around medication adherence, patients stated preferences for ART packaging and packaging attributes that influence the observed ART nonadherence are understudied.
METHODS: We conducted a qualitative study to elucidate perceptions of ART packaging among PLWH at two large referral hospitals in Northern Tanzania. Interviews were conducted until thematic saturation was reached. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed and coded.
RESULTS: Of the 16 participants whose data were used in the final analysis, a majority were between 36 and 55 years of age (Mean 45.5 years SD: 11.1), had primary-level education (n=11, 68.8%), were self-employed (n=9, 56.3%), reported that they had self-repacked ART (n=14, 88%), and were taking ART for more than 6 years (n=11, 68.8%). Participants identified three attributes of ART packaging that increased anticipated HIV stigma and prompted self-repackaging, including visual identification, bulkiness, and the rattling noise produced by ART pill bottles.
CONCLUSION: Given the drastic reduction in the number of pills required for HIV treatment, there is an opportunity to not only assess the cost-effectiveness of innovative ART packaging but also evaluate the acceptability of such packaging among PLWH in order to address stigma and improve ART adherence.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-based telemonitoring versus hospital admission in high risk pregnancies: a qualitative study on women's experiences.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hospital admission during pregnancy complications is considered to be an event of significant impact. Besides conventional in-clinic maternal and fetal monitoring, recent technologies enable home-based telemonitoring with self-measurements in high risk pregnancy. This study is part of a feasibility pilot to explore the usability and acceptability of telemonitoring and aims to gain insight in the experiences and preferences of high risk pregnant women concerning the novel strategy of telemonitoring, opposed to women who were hospitalized in pregnancy.
METHODS: Using secured Facebook Groups, we conducted four online focus groups: two focus groups with women who were admitted during pregnancy (n = 11) and two with women who received home telemonitoring in the pilot phase (n = 11). The qualitative data were analyzed thematically.
RESULTS: Four major themes emerged from both participant groups: [1] care experience, [2] emotions regarding pregnancy, [3] privacy and [4] impact on daily life. Different views were reported on all four themes, resulting in a direct comparison of experiences during hospitalization and telemonitoring. Most admitted patients reported a growing sense of boredom and anxiety during their clinical admission. Lack of privacy on ward was a great concern, as it affected their contact with hospital staff and family. This issue was not reported amongst telemonitored women. These participants still felt like a patient at times but responded that the comfort of their own home and bed was pleasant. Only a minority of telemonitored participants reported being anxious at times at home, while not having a physician or nurse nearby. Being at home resulted in less travel time for partners or family for hospital visits, which had its positive effects on family life.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemonitoring of a high-risk pregnancy provides an innovative manner to monitor fetal and maternal condition from home. Compared to the experiences of hospital admission in high risk pregnancy, it allows women to be in a comforting and private environment during an anxious time in their lives. As future studies should further investigate the safety and cost effectiveness of this novel strategy, women's views on the preference of telemonitoring need to be taken into consideration.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemonitoring and experimentation in telemedicine for the improvement of healthcare pathways (ETAPES program). Sustainability beyond 2021: What type of organisational model and funding should be used?
Abstract: Medical telemonitoring could be a significant lever for improving access to care and the cost-effectiveness of patient management, particularly for chronic conditions, by reducing hospital admissions. It also appears to be an opportunity to redesign the healthcare pathway and its organisation in a way that is suited to the demographic, economic, and technical challenges that our healthcare system must address. In order to prepare for the future of socialised financing of telemonitoring at the end of the ETAPES programme, participants at the round table worked on nine recommendations, based on an analysis of international literature and the French healthcare system. The main stance endorsed is the implementation of a fixed rate fee associated with the creation of generic guidelines for the diseases currently involved in the ETAPES trials. Similarly, the implementation of an evaluation that is appropriate for telemonitoring devices and of incentives for quality of care seems necessary for the sustainable deployment of telemonitoring in France. Further studies will be required in addition to the points discussed by the round table in order to delve deeper into certain topics, such as therapeutic support for patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Smartphone Cardiac Rehabilitation, Assisted Self-Management Versus Usual Care: Protocol for a Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial to Compare Effects and Costs Among People With Coronary Heart Disease.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Alternative evidence-based cardiac rehabilitation (CR) delivery models that overcome significant barriers to access and delivery are needed to address persistent low utilization. Models utilizing contemporary digital technologies could significantly improve reach and fidelity as complementary alternatives to traditional center-based programs.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to compare the effects and costs of the innovative Smartphone Cardiac Rehabilitation, Assisted self-Management (SCRAM) intervention with usual care CR.
METHODS: In this investigator-, assessor-, and statistician-blinded parallel 2-arm randomized controlled trial, 220 adults (18+ years) with coronary heart disease are being recruited from 3 hospitals in metropolitan and regional Victoria, Australia. Participants are randomized (1:1) to receive advice to engage with usual care CR or the SCRAM intervention. SCRAM is a 24-week dual-phase intervention that includes 12 weeks of real-time remote exercise supervision and coaching from exercise physiologists, which is followed by 12 weeks of data-driven nonreal-time remote coaching via telephone. Both intervention phases include evidence- and theory-based multifactorial behavior change support delivered via smartphone push notifications. Outcomes assessed at baseline, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks include maximal aerobic exercise capacity (primary outcome at 24 weeks), modifiable cardiovascular risk factors, exercise adherence, secondary prevention self-management behaviors, health-related quality of life, and adverse events. Economic and process evaluations will determine cost-effectiveness and participant perceptions of the treatment arms, respectively.
RESULTS: The trial was funded in November 2017 and received ethical approval in June 2018. Recruitment began in November 2018. As of September 2019, 54 participants have been randomized into the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: The innovative multiphase SCRAM intervention delivers real-time remote exercise supervision and evidence-based self-management behavioral support to participants, regardless of their geographic proximity to traditional center-based CR facilities. Our trial will provide unique and valuable information about effects of SCRAM on outcomes associated with cardiac and all-cause mortality, as well as acceptability and cost-effectiveness. These findings will be important to inform health care providers about the potential for innovative program delivery models, such as SCRAM, to be implemented at scale, as a complement to existing CR programs. The inclusion of a cohort comprising metropolitan-, regional-, and rural-dwelling participants will help to understand the role of this delivery model across health care contexts with diverse needs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ACTRN): 12618001458224; anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=374508.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/15022.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of an in-home respite care program to support informal caregivers of persons with dementia: A model-based analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate cost-effectiveness of an in-home respite care program in addition to standard community-based dementia care to support informal caregivers of persons with dementia compared with standard community-based dementia care.
METHODS: An age-dependent decision-analytic Markov model was applied from a third-party payer and a societal perspective projecting results of a quasi-experimental study over a time horizon of 5 years assuming a repetition of the program every 6 months. Additionally, to deal with uncertainty and to test robustness of the model scenario, one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Implementing the program resulted in a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain of 0.14 in favor of the invention group compared with controls and an incremental cost of 1270€ from the third-party payer perspective and of 1220€ from the societal perspective. Next, an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 9042€/QALY and of 8690€/QALY was found in the base case, from the third-party payer perspective and the societal perspective, respectively. The scenario, one-way sensitivity, and probabilistic analyses demonstrated robustness of the base-case results.
CONCLUSION: This cost-effectiveness analysis suggests that an in-home respite care program in addition to standard community-based dementia care is a cost-effective approach compared with standard community-based dementia care only. These findings provide more insight into the value of such services for the patient, the caregiver, and for society.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy and cost-utility of the eHealth self-management application 'Oncokompas', helping partners of patients with incurable cancer to identify their unmet supportive care needs and to take actions to meet their needs: a study protocol of a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Incurable cancer does not only affect patients, it also affects the lives of their partners. Many partners take on caregiving responsibilities. The burden of these caregiving tasks are often associated with physical, psychological, and social difficulties and many partners have unmet supportive care needs. Oncokompas is an eHealth self-management application to support partners in finding and obtaining optimal supportive care, tailored to their quality of life and personal preferences. A randomized controlled trial will be carried out to determine the efficacy and cost-utility of Oncokompas.
METHODS: A total of 136 adult partners of patients with incurable cancer will be included. Partners will be randomly assigned to the intervention group, which directly gets access to Oncokompas, or the waiting-list control group, which gets access to Oncokompas after three months. The primary outcome measure is caregiver burden. Secondary outcome measures comprise self-efficacy, health-related quality of life, and costs. Measures will be assessed at baseline, two weeks after randomization, and three months after the baseline measurement.
DISCUSSION: This study will result in evidence on the efficacy and cost-utility of Oncokompas among partners of patients with incurable cancer, which might lead to implementation of Oncokompas as a health service for partners of patients with incurable cancer.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register, NTR 7636. Registered on 23 November 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical Decision Support for Recognizing and Managing Hypertensive Blood Pressure in Youth: No Significant Impact on Medical Costs.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate economic costs from the health system perspective of an electronic health record-based clinical decision support (CDS) tool, TeenBP, designed to assist in the recognition and management of hypertension in youth.
METHODS: Twenty primary care clinics within an integrated health system were randomized to the TeenBP CDS or usual care (UC), with patient enrollment from 4/15/14 to 4/14/16. The 12-month change in standardized medical care costs for insured patients aged 10 to 17 years without prior hypertension were calculated for each study arm. The primary analysis compared patients with ≥1 visit with blood pressure (BP) ≥95th percentile (isolated hypertensive BP), and secondary analyses compared patients with ≥3 visits within one year with BP ≥95th percentile (incident hypertension). Generalized estimating equation models estimated the difference-in-differences in costs between groups over time.
RESULTS: Among 925 insured patients with an isolated hypertensive BP, the pre-to-post change in overall costs averaged $22 more for TeenBP CDS versus UC patients over 12 months, but this difference was not statistically significant (P = .723). Among 159 insured patients with incident hypertension, the pre-to-post change in overall costs over 12 months was higher by $227 per person on average for TeenBP CDS versus UC patients, but this difference also was not statistically significant (P = .313).
CONCLUSIONS: The TeenBP CDS intervention was previously found to significantly improve identification and management of hypertensive BP in youth, and in this study, we find that this tool did not significantly increase care costs in its first 12 months of clinical use.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Indian Health Service Primary Care-Based Teleophthalmology Program for Diabetic Eye Disease Surveillance and Management.
Abstract: Background: Historically, fewer than half of American Indians and Alaska Natives (AI/AN) with diabetes received the annual diabetic retinopathy (DR) examination that is considered the minimum standard of care; this rate is similar to that of the general United States (U.S.) population with diabetes. Solution: The Indian Health Service-Joslin Vision Network (IHS-JVN) Teleophthalmology Program in 2000 to increase compliance with DR standards of care among AI/AN through validated, primary care-based telemedicine. The IHS-JVN provides remote diagnosis of DR severity, with a report including management recommendations that is returned to the patient's primary care provider. The program conforms with the American Telemedicine Association (ATA) Practice Guidelines for Ocular Telehealth-Diabetic Retinopathy. Outcomes: The IHS-JVN has been expanding incrementally since the first patients were recruited in 2000; this expansion coincides with large improvements in the annual DR examination rates reported as part of local, regional, and national regulatory compliance under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA). Currently, with 99 clinical implementations in 23 states, IHS-JVN is the largest primary care-based ATA validation category three telemedicine program in the U.S. Summary: This article describes the program's workflow, imaging and reading technologies, diagnostic protocols, reports to providers, training, quality assurance processes, and geographical distribution. In addition to its clinical use, the program has been utilized in research on utilization of diabetic eye care, cost-effectiveness, technology development, and DR epidemiology of the AI/AN population. Potential next steps for this program are discussed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telerehabilitation services for stroke.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telerehabilitation offers an alternate way of delivering rehabilitation services. Information and communication technologies are used to facilitate communication between the healthcare professional and the patient in a remote location. The use of telerehabilitation is becoming more viable as the speed and sophistication of communication technologies improve. However, it is currently unclear how effective this model of delivery is relative to rehabilitation delivered face-to-face or when added to usual care.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether the use of telerehabilitation leads to improved ability to perform activities of daily living amongst stroke survivors when compared with (1) in-person rehabilitation (when the clinician and the patient are at the same physical location and rehabilitation is provided face-to-face); or (2) no rehabilitation or usual care. Secondary objectives were to determine whether use of telerehabilitation leads to greater independence in self-care and domestic life and improved mobility, balance, health-related quality of life, depression, upper limb function, cognitive function or functional communication when compared with in-person rehabilitation and no rehabilitation. Additionally, we aimed to report on the presence of adverse events, cost-effectiveness, feasibility and levels of user satisfaction associated with telerehabilitation interventions.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (June 2019), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (the Cochrane Library, Issue 6, 2019), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to June 2019), Embase (1974 to June 2019), and eight additional databases. We searched trial registries and reference lists.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of telerehabilitation in stroke. We included studies that compared telerehabilitation with in-person rehabilitation or no rehabilitation. In addition, we synthesised and described the results of RCTs that compared two different methods of delivering telerehabilitation services without an alternative group. We included rehabilitation programmes that used a combination of telerehabilitation and in-person rehabilitation provided that the greater proportion of intervention was provided via telerehabilitation.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently identified trials on the basis of prespecified inclusion criteria, extracted data and assessed risk of bias. A third review author moderated any disagreements. The review authors contacted investigators to ask for missing information. We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence and interpret findings.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 22 trials in the review involving a total of 1937 participants. The studies ranged in size from the inclusion of 10 participants to 536 participants, and reporting quality was often inadequate, particularly in relation to random sequence generation and allocation concealment. Selective outcome reporting and incomplete outcome data were apparent in several studies. Study interventions and comparisons varied, meaning that, in many cases, it was inappropriate to pool studies. Intervention approaches included post-hospital discharge support programs, upper limb training, lower limb and mobility retraining and communication therapy for people with post-stroke language disorders. Studies were either conducted upon discharge from hospital or with people in the subacute or chronic phases following stroke.
PRIMARY OUTCOME: we found moderate-quality evidence that there was no difference in activities of daily living between people who received a post-hospital discharge telerehabilitation intervention and those who received usual care (based on 2 studies with 661 participants (standardised mean difference (SMD) -0.00, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.15 to 0.15)). We found low-quality evidence of no difference in effects on activities of daily living between telerehabilitation and in-person physical therapy programmes (based on 2 studies with 75 participants: SMD 0.03, 95% CI -0.43 to 0.48).
SECONDARY OUTCOMES: we found a low quality of evidence that there was no difference between telerehabilitation and in-person rehabilitation for balance outcomes (based on 3 studies with 106 participants: SMD 0.08, 95%CI -0.30 to 0.46). Pooling of three studies with 569 participants showed moderate-quality evidence that there was no difference between those who received post-discharge support interventions and those who received usual care on health-related quality of life (SMD 0.03, 95% CI -0.14 to 0.20). Similarly, pooling of six studies (with 1145 participants) found moderate-quality evidence that there was no difference in depressive symptoms when comparing post-discharge tele-support programs with usual care (SMD -0.04, 95% CI -0.19 to 0.11). We found no difference between groups for upper limb function (based on 3 studies with 170 participants: mean difference (MD) 1.23, 95% CI -2.17 to 4.64, low-quality evidence) when a computer program was used to remotely retrain upper limb function in comparison to in-person therapy. Evidence was insufficient to draw conclusions on the effects of telerehabilitation on mobility or participant satisfaction with the intervention. No studies evaluated the cost-effectiveness of telerehabilitation; however, five of the studies reported health service utilisation outcomes or costs of the interventions provided within the study. Two studies reported on adverse events, although no serious trial-related adverse events were reported.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: While there is now an increasing number of RCTs testing the efficacy of telerehabilitation, it is hard to draw conclusions about the effects as interventions and comparators varied greatly across studies. In addition, there were few adequately powered studies and several studies included in this review were at risk of bias. At this point, there is only low or moderate-level evidence testing whether telerehabilitation is a more effective or similarly effective way to provide rehabilitation. Short-term post-hospital discharge telerehabilitation programmes have not been shown to reduce depressive symptoms, improve quality of life, or improve independence in activities of daily living when compared with usual care. Studies comparing telerehabilitation and in-person therapy have also not found significantly different outcomes between groups, suggesting that telerehabilitation is not inferior. Some studies reported that telerehabilitation was less expensive to provide but information was lacking about cost-effectiveness. Only two trials reported on whether or not any adverse events had occurred; these trials found no serious adverse events were related to telerehabilitation. The field is still emerging and more studies are needed to draw more definitive conclusions. In addition, while this review examined the efficacy of telerehabilitation when tested in randomised trials, studies that use mixed methods to evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of telehealth interventions are incredibly valuable in measuring outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Internet-based aftercare for patients with personality disorders and trauma-related disorders: A pilot study.
Abstract: Preventing readmission after hospital discharge is a major issue with regard to the continuity of patients' recovery process and the financial burden on the healthcare system, but adequate aftercare services are lacking. Therefore, a pilot study was conducted to examine the feasibility and acceptability of an Internet-based aftercare program for patients with personality disorders (PD) and / or trauma-related disorders as well as to obtain a preliminary estimate of effects on symptomatology and readmission. Patients' satisfaction with the program and symptomatology (KPD-38, BDI-II) were assessed prior to hospital discharge (t1) and after three months of participation (t2). Log data on program utilization (i.e., logins, page hits, and chat use) were automatically assessed via server logs. N = 31 of 45 eligible patients consented to participate. 84% used the intervention at least once. The average duration of participation was 63 days (SD = 4.6). Patients attended on average 7.2 out of 12 group chat sessions (SD = 4.0). Findings indicate very high acceptance of and satisfaction with the intervention. Symptomatology on all outcomes was stable, no deteriorations could be observed. 20% reported readmission within the aftercare period. Efficacy and cost-effectiveness should be tested with a large-scale randomized controlled trial.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-utility analysis of telemonitoring versus conventional hospital-based follow-up of patients with pacemakers. The NORDLAND randomized clinical trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The aim of our study was to perform an economic assessment in order to check whether or not telemonitoring of users with pacemakers offers a cost-effective alternative to traditional follow-up in outpatient clinics.
METHODS: We used effectiveness and cost data from the NORDLAND trial, which is a controlled, randomized, non-masked clinical trial. Fifty patients were assigned to receive either telemonitoring (TM; n = 25) or conventional monitoring (CM; n = 25) and were followed up for 12 months after the implantation. A cost-utility analysis was performed in terms of additional costs per additional Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY) attained from the perspectives of the Norwegian National Healthcare System and patients and their caregivers.
RESULTS: Effectiveness was similar between alternatives (TM: 0.7804 [CI: 0.6864 to 0.8745] vs. CM: 0.7465 [CI: 0.6543 to 0.8387]), while cost per patient was higher in the RM group, both from the Norwegian NHS perspective (TM: €2,079.84 [CI: 0.00 to 4,610.58] vs. €271.97 [CI: 158.18 to 385.76]; p = 0.147) and including the patient/family perspective (TM: €2,295.91 [CI: 0.00 to 4,843.28] vs. CM: €430.39 [CI: 0.00 to 4,841.48]), although these large differences-mainly due to a few patients being hospitalized in the TM group, as opposed to none in the CM group-did not reach statistical significance. The Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) from the Norwegian NHS perspective (€53,345.27/QALY) and including the patient/caregiver perspective (€55,046.40/QALY), as well as the Incremental Net Benefit (INB), favors the CM alternative, albeit with very broad 95%CIs. The probabilistic analysis confirmed inconclusive results due to the wide CIs even suggesting that TM was not cost-effective in this study. Supplemental analysis excluding the hospitalization costs shows positive INBs, whereby suggesting a discrete superiority of the RM alternative if hospitalization costs were not considered, albeit also with broad CIs.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-utility analysis of TM vs. CM shows inconclusive results because of broad confidence intervals with ICER and INB figures ranging from potential savings to high costs for an additional QALY, with the majority of ICERs being above the usual NHS thresholds for coverage decisions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02237404.
Label Included: 1

Title: Teaching Helping Babies Breathe via Telehealth: A New Application in Rural Guatemala.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Helping Babies Breathe (HBB) is a neonatal resuscitation curriculum that teaches life-saving interventions utilized in the first minutes after birth, reducing morbidity and mortality. Traditionally, it requires in-person facilitators for didactic and hands-on training.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to offer HBB to nurses and nursing students in Guatemala, with the lead facilitator presenting concepts via telehealth and in-person facilitators providing hands-on demonstration.
METHODS: Learners completed pre- and post-tests that included the standard HBB knowledge check, as well as an assessment of the course teaching model. Learners also completed the standard Objective Structured Clinical Evaluations (OSCEs).
RESULTS: Eighteen learners were included in the analysis. All but one learner (94%) passed the course, and the average percent improvement from the pre- to post-test was 12%. All learners achieved passing scores on the OSCEs. Learners responded positively to questions regarding the technology, connection with the instructor, and ability to ask questions. Ninety-four percent of the learners agreed with the statement "this lecture was as good via telehealth as in person." A cost analysis demonstrated approximately USD 3,979.00 in savings using telehealth compared to a standard in-person course.
CONCLUSIONS: The telehealth model was successful in delivering course material to the learners and was well received. This model represents a cost-effective way to improve access to HBB. This study may not be generalizable to other populations, and the ability to use telehealth requires reliable internet connectivity, which may not be available in all settings. Further study and expansion of this pilot are needed to assess success in other settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Is telehealthcare for heart failure patients cost-effective? An economic evaluation alongside the Danish TeleCare North heart failure trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of telehealthcare in heart failure patients as add-on to usual care.
DESIGN: A cost-utility analysis was conducted from a public payer perspective alongside the randomised controlled TeleCare North trial.
SETTING: The North Denmark Region, Denmark.
PARTICIPANTS: The study included 274 heart failure patients with self-reported New York Heart Association class II-IV.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients in the intervention group were provided with a Telekit consisting of a tablet, a digital blood pressure monitor, and a scale and were instructed to perform measurements one to two times a week. The responsibility of the education, instructions and monitoring of the heart failure (HF) patients was placed on municipality nurses trained in HF and telemonitoring. Both groups received usual care.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost-effectiveness was reported as incremental net monetary benefit (NMB). A micro-costing approach was applied to evaluate the derived savings in the first year in the public health sector. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) gained were estimated using the EuroQol 5-Dimensions 5-Levels questionnaire at baseline and at a 1-year follow-up.
RESULTS: Data for 274 patients were included in the main analysis. The telehealthcare solution provided a positive incremental NMB of £5164. The 1-year adjusted QALY difference between the telehealthcare solution and the usual care group was 0.0034 (95% CI: -0.0711 to 0.0780). The adjusted difference in costs was -£5096 (95% CI: -8736 to -1456) corresponding to a reduction in total healthcare costs by 35%. All sensitivity analyses showed the main results were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: The TeleCare North solution for monitoring HF was highly cost-effective. There were significant cost savings on hospitalisations, primary care contacts and total costs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02860013.
Label Included: 1

Title: Electronic health record (EHR) training program identifies a new tool to quantify the EHR time burden and improves providers' perceived control over their workload in the EHR.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To understand if providers who had additional electronic health record (EHR) training improved their satisfaction, decreased personal EHR-use time, and decreased turnaround time on tasks.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This pre-post study with no controls evaluated the impact of a supplemental EHR training program on a group of academic and community practice clinicians that previously had go-live group EHR training and 20 months experience using this EHR on self-reported data, calculated EHR time, and vendor-reported metrics.
RESULTS: Providers self-reported significant improvements in their knowledge of efficiency tools in the EHR after training and doubled (significant) their preference list entries (mean pre = 38.1 [65.88], post = 63.5 [90.47], P < .01). Of the 7 EHR satisfaction variables, only 1 self-reported variable significantly improved after training: Control over my workload in the EHR (mean pre = 2.7 [0.96], post = 3.0 [1.04], P < .01). There was no significant decrease in their calculated EHR usage outside of clinic (mean pre = 0.39 [0.77] to post = 0.37 [0.48], P = .73). No significant difference was seen in turnaround time for patient calls (mean pre = 2.3 [2.06] days, post = 1.9 [1.76] days, P = .08) and results (mean before = 4.0 [2.79] days, after = 3.2 [2.33] days, P = .03).
DISCUSSION: Multiple sources of data provide a holistic view of the provider experience in the EHR. This study suggests that individualized EHR training can improve the knowledge of EHR tools and satisfaction with their perceived control of EHR workload, however this did not translate into less Clinician Logged-In Outside Clinic (CLOC) time, a calculated metric, nor quicker turnaround on in box tasks. CLOC time emerged as a potential less-costly surrogate metric for provider satisfaction in EHR work than surveying clinicians. Further study is required to understand the cost-benefit of various interventions to decrease CLOC time.
CONCLUSIONS: This supplemental EHR training session, 20 months post go-live, where most participants elected to receive 2 or fewer sessions did significantly improve provider satisfaction with perceived control over their workload in the EHR, but it was not effective in decreasing EHR-use time outside of clinic. CLOC time, a calculated metric, could be a practical trackable surrogate for provider satisfaction (inverse correlation) with after-hours time spent in the EHR. Further study into interventions that decrease CLOC time and improve turnaround time to respond to inbox tasks are suggested next steps.
Label Included: 0

Title: Blood pressure monitoring in high-risk pregnancy to improve the detection and monitoring of hypertension (the BUMP 1 and 2 trials): protocol for two linked randomised controlled trials.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Self-monitoring of blood pressure (BP) in pregnancy could improve the detection and management of pregnancy hypertension, while also empowering and engaging women in their own care. Two linked trials aim to evaluate whether BP self-monitoring in pregnancy improves the detection of raised BP during higher risk pregnancies (BUMP 1) and whether self-monitoring reduces systolic BP during hypertensive pregnancy (BUMP 2).
METHODS AND ANALYSES: Both are multicentre, non-masked, parallel group, randomised controlled trials. Participants will be randomised to self-monitoring with telemonitoring or usual care. BUMP 1 will recruit a minimum of 2262 pregnant women at higher risk of pregnancy hypertension and BUMP 2 will recruit a minimum of 512 pregnant women with either gestational or chronic hypertension. The BUMP 1 primary outcome is the time to the first recording of raised BP by a healthcare professional. The BUMP 2 primary outcome is mean systolic BP between baseline and delivery recorded by healthcare professionals. Other outcomes will include maternal and perinatal outcomes, quality of life and adverse events. An economic evaluation of BP self-monitoring in addition to usual care compared with usual care alone will be assessed across both study populations within trial and with modelling to estimate long-term cost-effectiveness. A linked process evaluation will combine quantitative and qualitative data to examine how BP self-monitoring in pregnancy is implemented and accepted in both daily life and routine clinical practice.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The trials have been approved by a Research Ethics Committee (17/WM/0241) and relevant research authorities. They will be published in peer-reviewed journals and presented at national and international conferences. If shown to be effective, BP self-monitoring would be applicable to a large population of pregnant women.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03334149.
Label Included: 0

Title: Predicting dementia with routine care EMR data.
Abstract: Our aim is to develop a machine learning (ML) model that can predict dementia in a general patient population from multiple health care institutions one year and three years prior to the onset of the disease without any additional monitoring or screening. The purpose of the model is to automate the cost-effective, non-invasive, digital pre-screening of patients at risk for dementia. Towards this purpose, routine care data, which is widely available through Electronic Medical Record (EMR) systems is used as a data source. These data embody a rich knowledge and make related medical applications easy to deploy at scale in a cost-effective manner. Specifically, the model is trained by using structured and unstructured data from three EMR data sets: diagnosis, prescriptions, and medical notes. Each of these three data sets is used to construct an individual model along with a combined model which is derived by using all three data sets. Human-interpretable data processing and ML techniques are selected in order to facilitate adoption of the proposed model by health care providers from multiple institutions. The results show that the combined model is generalizable across multiple institutions and is able to predict dementia within one year of its onset with an accuracy of nearly 80% despite the fact that it was trained using routine care data. Moreover, the analysis of the models identified important predictors for dementia. Some of these predictors (e.g., age and hypertensive disorders) are already confirmed by the literature while others, especially the ones derived from the unstructured medical notes, require further clinical analysis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of "Tele-Square Step Exercise" for Falls Prevention in Fibromyalgia Patients: A Study Protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Women with fibromyalgia (FM) have 2.5 falls per year compared to the 0.5 falls in people without FM. This fact poses a significant health expense. Square Stepping Exercise (SSE) is a balance training system that has been shown to be effective in preventing falls in the elderly. However, there are neither studies in people with FM nor studies that apply SSE through video-conferencing (Tele-SSE). The objectives of this project are 1) to investigate the applicability, safety, decrease in the number of falls, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of prevention of falls program through Tele-SSE in women with FM, and 2) to study the transfer of obtained results to the public and private socio-health economy of Extremadura. Methods/Design: A randomized controlled trial with experimental (Tele-SSE) and control (usual treatment) groups will be carried out. The application of Tele-SSE will be performed for 12 months (three times per week) and one additional follow-up month after the intervention. A focus group including agents to identify key points to transfer the findings to the public and private sectors in Extremadura. One-hundred and eighteen women with FM will be recruited and randomly distributed into the two groups: Experimental (Tele-SSE; n = 59) and control group (Usual care; n = 59). Primary outcome measures will be: 1) Applicability; 2) safety; 3) annual number of falls; and 4) incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Secondary outcomes will be: 1) Balance; 2) fear of falling; 3) socio-demographic and clinical information; 4) body composition; 5) physical fitness; 6) physical activity and sedentary behavior; 7) quality of life-related to health, mental health, and positive health; 8) pain; 9) disability level; 10) cognitive aspects; and 11) depressive symptoms. Regarding the focus group, the acceptability of the Tele-SSE will be evaluated in social-sanitary agents and will include Tele-SSE in their services offer. A statistical analysis will be carried out by treatment intention and protocol. In addition, a cost-effectiveness analysis from the perspective of the health system will be performed.
DISCUSSION: This project aims to improve the efficiency and equity of physical therapy services based on tele-exercise in preventing falls in people with FM. Furthermore, orientations will be given in order to transfer the obtained findings into the social-sanitary system and market.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluation of Robot-Based Telemedicine Consultation Services.
Abstract: Background: Through information and communication technology, telemedicine can deliver medical care without time and place restrictions, increasing health care accessibility in medically underdeveloped regions. Although there is growing interest in using robots in telemedicine, there are few economic evaluation studies of robot-based telemedicine. Introduction: Robots developed for use in telemedicine consultation services may help address the challenges that result from Korean physicians' efforts to support patients in Vietnam. We perform a cost-benefit analysis to assess the economic feasibility of a robot-based telemedicine consultation system compared with traditional face-to-face outpatient services. Methods: A cost-benefit analysis is performed of a robot-based telemedicine consultation system between S Hospital in Korea and H Hospital in Vietnam. The threshold was calculated as the point at which the cost of providing telemedicine consultation equals the cost of providing the same service using traditional methods. Results: The annual cost of a robot-based telemedicine consultation system was estimated as 6,056.40 USD, whereas the annual benefit from replacing traditional outpatient services was estimated as 1,508.51 USD, resulting in a threshold point of 4.01 visits per year. Consequently, if the telemedicine consultation robot system replaces >4.01 physician visits per year, it is more economical than conventional face-to-face services. If the physician needs to stay longer, the threshold will be lower. Conclusions: As our results show, robot-based systems for telemedicine have economic value and can potentially offer a solution to the unmet health care needs among patients living in medically underdeveloped regions by providing proper and timely medical care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluation of Tailored Web versus Tailored Telephone-Based Interventions to Increase Colorectal Cancer Screening among Women.
Abstract: Screening for colorectal cancer is cost-effective, but many U.S. women are nonadherent, and the cost-effectiveness of web-based tailored screening interventions is unknown. A randomized controlled trial, COBRA (Increasing Colorectal and Breast Cancer Screening), was the source of information for the economic evaluation. COBRA compared screening among a Usual Care group to: (i) tailored Phone Counseling intervention; (ii) tailored Web intervention; and (iii) tailored Web + Phone intervention groups. A sample of 1,196 women aged 50 to 75 who were nonadherent to colorectal cancer screening were recruited from Indiana primary care clinics during 2013 to 2015. Screening status was obtained through medical records at recruitment with verbal confirmation at consent, and at 6-month follow-up via medical record audit and participant self-report. A "best sample" analysis and microcosting from the patient and provider perspectives were applied to estimate the costs and effects of the interventions. Statistical uncertainty was analyzed with nonparametric bootstrapping and net benefit regression analysis. The per participant cost of implementing the Phone Counseling, Web-based, and Web + Phone Counseling interventions was $277, $314, and $336, respectively. The incremental cost per person screened for the Phone Counseling compared with no intervention was $995, while the additional cost of Web and the Web + Phone compared with Phone Counseling did not yield additonal persons screened. Tailored Phone Counseling significantly increased colorectal cancer screening rates compared with Usual Care. Tailored Web interventions did not improve the screening rate compared with the lower cost Phone Counseling intervention.
Label Included: 0

Title: Risk of herpes zoster after exposure to varicella to explore the exogenous boosting hypothesis: self controlled case series study using UK electronic healthcare data.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the magnitude and duration of any hypothesised protective effect of household exposure to a child with varicella on the relative incidence of herpes zoster in adults.
DESIGN: Self controlled case series.
SETTING: UK general practices contributing to Clinical Practice Research Datalink.
PARTICIPANTS: 9604 adults (≥18 years) with a diagnosis of herpes zoster (in primary care or hospital records) between 1997 and 2018, who during their observation period lived with a child (<18 years) with a diagnosis of varicella.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Relative incidence of herpes zoster in the 20 years after exposure to a child with varicella in the household compared with baseline time (all other time, excluding the 60 days before exposure).
RESULTS: 6584 of the 9604 adults with herpes zoster (68.6%) were women. Median age of exposure to a child with varicella was 38.3 years (interquartile range 32.3-48.8 years) and median observation period was 14.7 (11.1-17.7) years. 4116 adults developed zoster in the baseline period, 433 in the 60 days before exposure and 5055 in the risk period. After adjustment for age, calendar time, and season, strong evidence suggested that in the two years after household exposure to a child with varicella, adults were 33% less likely to develop zoster (incidence ratio 0.67, 95% confidence interval 0.62 to 0.73) compared with baseline time. In the 10-20 years after exposure, adults were 27% less likely to develop herpes zoster (0.73, 0.62 to 0.87) compared with baseline time. A stronger boosting effect was observed among men than among women after exposure to varicella.
CONCLUSIONS: The relative incidence of zoster was lower in the periods after exposure to a household contact with varicella, with modest but long lasting protective effects observed. This study suggests that exogenous boosting provides some protection from the risk of herpes zoster, but not complete immunity, as assumed by previous cost effectiveness estimates of varicella immunisation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of a mobile health-supported lifestyle intervention for pregnant women with an elevated body mass index.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of a mobile health-supported lifestyle intervention compared with usual care.
METHODS: We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis from the perspective of the publicly-funded health care system. We estimated costs associated with the intervention and health care utilisation from first antenatal care appointment through delivery. We used bootstrap methods to quantify the uncertainty around cost-effectiveness estimates. Health outcomes assessed in this analysis were gestational weight gain (GWG; kg), incidence of excessive GWG, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incidence of large-for-gestational-age (LGA). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated as cost per QALY gained, cost per kg of GWG avoided, cost per case of excessive GWG averted, and cost per case of LGA averted.
RESULTS: Total mean cost including intervention and health care utilisation was €3745 in the intervention group and €3471 in the control group (mean difference €274, P = 0.08). The ICER was €2914 per QALY gained. Assuming a ceiling ratio of €45,000, the probability that the intervention was cost-effective based on QALYs was 79%. Cost per kg of GWG avoided was €209. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve (CEAC) for kg of GWG avoided reached a confidence level of 95% at €905, indicating that if one is willing to pay a maximum of an additional €905 per kg of GWG avoided, there is a 95% probability that the intervention is cost-effective. Costs per case of excessive GWG averted and case of LGA averted were €2117 and €5911, respectively. The CEAC for case of excessive GWG averted and for case of LGA averted reached a confidence level of 95% at €7090 and €25,737, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that a mobile-health lifestyle intervention could be cost-effective; however, a better understanding of the short- and long-term costs of LGA and excessive GWG is necessary to confirm the results.
Label Included: 1

Title: Impact of electronic bedside meal ordering systems on dietary intake, patient satisfaction, plate waste and costs: A systematic literature review.
Abstract: AIM: Hospital foodservices provide an important opportunity to deliver valuable dietary support to patients, address hospital-acquired malnutrition risk and enhance patient satisfaction. Modifying the meal ordering process through the adoption of technology may actively engage patients in the process and provide an opportunity to influence patient and organisational outcomes. This systematic review was undertaken to evaluate the impact of electronic bedside meal ordering systems in hospitals on patient dietary intake, patient satisfaction, plate waste and costs.
METHODS: A systematic search following PRISMA guidelines was conducted across MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE and Web of Science for randomised controlled trials and observational studies comparing the effect of electronic bedside meal ordering systems with traditional menus on dietary intake, patient satisfaction, plate waste and cost. The quality of included studies was assessed using the Quality Criteria Checklist for Primary Research tool.
RESULTS: Five studies involving 720 patients were included. Given the heterogeneity of the included studies, the results were narratively synthesised. Electronic bedside meal ordering systems positively impacted patient dietary intake, patient satisfaction, plate waste and costs compared with traditional menus.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the increase in healthcare foodservices adopting digital health solutions, there is limited research specifically measuring the impact of electronic bedside meal ordering systems on patient and organisational outcomes. This study highlights potential benefits of electronic bedside meal ordering systems for hospitals using traditional paper menu systems, while also identifying the need for continued research to generate evidence to understand the impact of this change and inform future successful innovations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine for Pediatric Urological Postoperative Care is Safe, Convenient and Economical.
Abstract: PURPOSE: We compared virtual visits, ie remote patient encounters, via a live video system, with conventional in-person visits with respect to clinical outcomes, family experience and costs in a pediatric urology surgical population.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients were enrolled in a prospective cohort study comparing postoperative virtual and in-person visits during a 4-month period in 2018. Appointment status and time metrics were tracked. The primary outcome was the safety of virtual visits, assessed by comparing the number of additional in-person visits, emergency department encounters and hospital readmissions. Secondary outcomes included the family assessment of the encounter and associated costs. After each visit families were prompted to complete a survey that assessed missed work/school and direct costs. Opportunity cost was estimated using reported missed work time, average national hourly wage and visit duration.
RESULTS: Overall 107 virtual and 100 in-person postoperative visits were completed. There was no difference in patient characteristics, appointment compliance or clinical outcomes between the cohorts. Travel and waiting for care accounted for 98.4% of the total time spent for an in-person visit. With the virtual visit significantly less work and school were missed by parents and children, respectively. The opportunity costs associated with an in-person visit were computed at $23.75 per minute of face time with a physician, compared to $1.14 for a virtual visit.
CONCLUSIONS: For pediatric postoperative care virtual visits are associated with shorter wait times, decreased missed work and school, and clinical outcomes similar to those of in-person visits. Telemedicine appears to reduce the costs associated with these brief but important encounters.
Label Included: 0

Title: The role of tele-ophthalmology in diabetic retinopathy screening.
Abstract: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the leading cause of legal blindness in the United States. Considering the increasing incidence of DR, it is extremely important to detect the most cost-effective tools for DR screening, so as to manage this surge in demand and the socioeconomic burden it places on the health care system. Despite the advances in retinal imaging, analysis techniques are still superseded by expert ophthalmologist interpretation. Teleophthalmology presents an immense opportunity, with high rates of sensitivity and specificity, to manage the steadily increasing demand for eye care of patients with diabetes, but challenges remain in the delivery of practical, viable, and clinically proven solutions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Closing the cycle of innovation in healthcare in Europe.
Abstract: Pragmatic or practice-oriented comparative effectiveness trials may be conducted to fill the evidence gaps that are revealed after the private sector has performed the trials needed for bringing their product to the market. A tool of increasing importance to identify such evidence gaps is resulting from health technology assessments (HTA) whereby the data derived from clinical research are examined in a systematic manner with reference to effect, safety, as well as additional parameters. Practice-oriented trials are informative for healthcare decision makers, practice-changing and may even be cost-saving for the healthcare payers. There are however only a limited number of funding sources for such trials. Public and private healthcare payers should stimulate the conduct of practice-oriented trials in their effort to maximize patient benefit within the limitation of the available resources. Pragmatic randomized trials can be performed at low cost when based on existing coded electronic health records and as well health registries. Public health decision makers are increasingly taking advantage of results from health technology assessments to support priority setting. In accordance with this it would appear reasonable that decision makers should get more involved in priority setting and funding also in the field of clinical research in order to provide further evidence needed for assessments, reassessments, and subsequent qualified decisions and resource allocations in health care. A closer dialogue and collaboration between the clinical research and HTA communities would facilitate a more efficient utilization of such opportunities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility of mobile telephonic follow-up among patients with alcohol dependence syndrome.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Losses to follow-up impact the collection of outcomes among patients with alcohol dependence syndrome (ADS). We aimed to study the feasibility and acceptability of using telephonic contact as a means of following up new patients with ADS. The outcomes assessed were complete abstinence at the end of 6 months and associated factors.
METHODS: We followed up a cohort of 54 new patients diagnosed with ADS after 6 months, in the psychiatry department of a tertiary care hospital in India. We also assessed sociodemographic, alcohol-related, medical and treatmentrelated details of the patients; and scores on the Short Alcohol Dependence Data Questionnaire, Rotter's scale for the locus of control, and the Clinical Institute of Withdrawal Assessment of Alcohol scale-revised. The primary outcome was complete abstinence at the end of 6 months. The data at follow-up were collected through a combination of in-person and telephonic interviews with the patients and caregivers and supplemented with chart reviews.
RESULTS: Follow-up at 6 months could be carried out for 51 of 54 patients enrolled (94.4%; 32 through direct, and 19 through telephonic interviews). The proportion of patients who achieved and maintained complete abstinence during this period was 27.5%. The factors found to be associated with abstinence were regularity of follow-up, adherence to medicines and having had the habit of drinking alcohol with friends, as opposed to solitary drinking.
CONCLUSION: Using mobile telephonic technology, we were able to obtain an excellent follow-up and improve the collection of outcomes by 35.2% at the end of a 6-month period among new patients with ADS. This potentially effective tool is widely available and cost-effective, and could have a role in improving outcomes among patients with ADS.
Label Included: 0

Title: A multicenter randomized clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of telemonitoring in patients with advanced heart and lung chronic failure. Study protocol for the ATLAN_TIC project.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Using technologies of information and communication (TICs) is emerging in medical assistance. TICs application for medical assistance is promising. Its applicability in advanced heart and/or respiratory failure is still controversial because studies have shown methodological weakness which could put in danger their conclusions. Our objective is to evaluate efficacy of the application of home monitoring biological parameters in a multi-level model of coordinated clinical care for patients with chronic diseases with advanced heart (HF) and/or respiratory failure (RF) in comparison with conventional clinical care.
METHOD: /Design: Multicentric, phase III, randomized, parallel groups, controlled clinical trial. Patients with advanced HF and/or RF were eligible to participate. Patients received medical assistance by a multi-level model of coordinated clinical care with or without home monitoring. Follow up was performed until 180 days after inclusion. Primary efficacy outcome was defined as the percentage of patients with hospitalization/emergency room visits. Secondary efficacy outcomes were hospital admissions, admissions to hospital emergencies and Primary Care Emergencies, number of days of hospital stay, total cost per patient in euros, mortality, change in functional status, quality of life, assistance and technology devices. Intention to treat, as well as per protocol, and incremental cost-effectiveness analysis will be performed. The number of recruits patients per arm is set at 255, a total of 510 patients.
DISCUSSION: This trial could provide some knowledge about the real impact of home monitoring for patients with advanced HF and/or RF within a multi-level model of integrated care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tripartite Data Analysis for Optimizing Telemedicine Operations: Evidence from Guizhou Province in China.
Abstract: Telemedicine is an innovative approach that helps alleviate the health disparity in developing countries and improve health service accessibility, affordability, and quality. Few studies have focused on the social and organizational issues involved in telemedicine, despite in-depth studies of and significant improvements in these technologies. This paper used evolutionary game theory to analyze behavioral strategies and their dynamic evolution in the implementation and operation of telemedicine. Further, numerical simulation was carried out to develop management strategies for promoting telemedicine as a new way of delivering health services. The results showed that: (1) When the benefits are greater than the costs, the higher medical institutions (HMIs), primary medical institutions (PMIs), and patients positively promote telemedicine with benign interactions; (2) when the costs are greater than the benefits, the stability strategy of HMIs, PMIs, and patients is, respectively, 'no efforts', 'no efforts', and 'non-acceptance'; and (3) promotion of telemedicine is influenced by the initial probability of the 'HMI efforts', 'PMI efforts', and 'patients' acceptance' strategy chosen by the three stakeholders, telemedicine costs, and the reimbursement ratio of such costs. Based on theoretical analysis, in order to verify the theoretical model, this paper introduces the case study of a telemedicine system integrated with health resources at provincial, municipal, county, and township level in Guizhou. The findings of the case study were consistent with the theoretical analysis. Therefore, the central Chinese government and local governments should pay attention to the running cost of MIs and provide financial support when the costs are greater than the benefits. At the same time, the government should raise awareness of telemedicine and increase participation by all three stakeholders. Lastly, in order to promote telemedicine effectively, it is recommended that telemedicine services are incorporated within the scope of medical insurance and the optimal reimbursement ratio is used.
Label Included: 0

Title: Reply to Comment on "The effectiveness of home versus community-based weight control programmes initiated soon after breast cancer diagnosis: a randomised controlled trial".
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Comment on "The effectiveness of home versus community-based weight control programmes initiated soon after breast cancer diagnosis: a randomised controlled trial".
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs and factors associated with heart failure following kidney transplantation - a single-center retrospective cohort study.
Abstract: The number of adults with heart failure (HF) will increase by ~50% between 2012 and 2030. Among kidney transplant recipients, HF accounts for 16% of all post-transplant admissions. We describe the burden of HF and predictors of healthcare utilization following kidney transplantation. We retrospectively identified adults who underwent kidney transplantation at our institution (01/2007-12/2017). Data were acquired from electronic health records, with healthcare utilization obtained from a statewide database. The HF incidence rate and prevalence were estimated for each year, total charges for HF and non-HF patients were compared, and logistic regression was employed for a 3-year predictive model of healthcare utilization associated with HF. Among 1731 kidney transplant recipients, the post-transplant HF incidence rate ranged from 1.91 (year 3) to 6.80 (year 10) per 100 person-years, while the prevalence increased from 31.7% (year 1) to 48.1% (year 10). Median charges were $75 837 (HF) compared to $42 940 (non-HF) per person-year (P < 0.001). Pretransplant HF [odds ratio (OR) = 3.12] and an eGFR < 45 (OR = 4.73) were the strongest predictors of HF encounters (P < 0.05 for both). We observed a high and increasing prevalence of HF, which was associated with twice the costs. Kidney transplant recipients would benefit from interventions aimed at mitigating HF risk factors.
Label Included: 0

Title: From Nonadherence to Adherence.
Abstract: Medication nonadherence (MNA) after solid organ transplantation is highly prevalent and associated with (late) (sub)clinical acute rejection, graft dysfunction and graft loss, development of donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies, and antibody-mediated rejection. MNA is predominantly unintentional and originates from barriers to adherence that are often multifactorial and complex. Tools to establish an early diagnosis of MNA include incorporation of MNA as a vital sign in daily clinical practice, self-reporting using validated questionnaires, calculating intrapatient variability in drug exposure and applying electronic monitoring, and recent audio and video technologies such as in home telemonitoring. MNA is a modifiable risk factor after organ transplantation, and treatment is most effective if a multimodal approach is used. Management of MNA comprises education (cognitive) and counseling (behavioral) that require the involvement of a trained multidisciplinary team [ideally physician, nurse (specialist), social worker, transplant coordinator, psychologist, clinical pharmacist], electronic reminder and support systems (eg, Medication Event Monitoring System, smartphone), and different types of novel mobile health applications as well as simplification of the medication dosing regimen. Future studies that evaluate novel therapeutic approaches for MNA should assure the use of reliable MNA measures, focus on multimodal individualized therapy for enriched nonadherent target populations (eg, adolescents), and incorporate clinically relevant endpoints. Costs, time, and personnel investments should be taken into account when assessing scalability and cost-effectiveness of novel therapeutic strategies. This review provides suggestions how different types of transplant centers can set up a dedicated MNA program according to available resources to define and achieve realistic clinical goals in managing MNA.
Label Included: 0

Title: Interventions designed to improve the safety and quality of therapeutic anticoagulation in an inpatient electronic medical record.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Anticoagulants are high-risk medications with the potential to cause significant patient harm or death. Digital transformation is occurring in hospital practice and it is essential to implement effective, evidence-based strategies for these medications in an electronic medical record (EMR).
OBJECTIVE: To systematically appraise the literature to determine which EMR interventions have improved the safety and quality of therapeutic anticoagulation in an inpatient hospital setting.
METHODS: PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, and the International Pharmaceutical Database were searched for suitable publications. Articles that met eligibility criteria up to September 2018 were included. The review was registered with PROSPERO (CRD42018104899). The web-based software platform Covidence® was used for screening and data extraction. Studies were grouped according to the type of intervention and the outcomes measured. Where relevant, a bias assessment was performed.
RESULTS: We found 2624 candidate articles and 27 met inclusion criteria. They included 3 randomised controlled trials, 4 cohort studies and 20 pre/post observational studies. There were four major interventions; computerised physician order entry (CPOE) (n = 4 studies), clinical decision support system (CDSS) methods (n = 21), dashboard utilisation (n = 1) and EMR implementation in general (n = 1). Seven outcomes were used to summarise the study results. Most research focused on prescribing or documentation compliance (n = 18). The remaining study outcome measures were: medication errors (n = 9), adverse drug events (n = 5), patient outcomes (morbidity/mortality/length of hospital stay/re-hospitalisation) (n = 5), quality use of anticoagulant (n = 4), end-user acceptance (n = 4), cost effectiveness (n = 1).
CONCLUSION: Despite the research cited, limited benefits have been demonstrated to date. It appears healthcare organisations are yet to determine optimal, evidence-based-methods to improve EMR utilisation. Further evaluation, collaboration and work are necessary to measure and leverage the potential benefits of digital health systems. Most research evaluating therapeutic anticoagulation management within an EMR focused on prescribing or documentation compliance, with less focus on clinical impact to the patient or cost effectiveness. Evidence suggests that CPOE in conjunction with CDSS is needed to effectively manage therapeutic anticoagulation. Targets for robust research include the integration of 'stealth' alerts, nomograms into digital systems and the use of dashboards within clinical practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Study protocol: CareAvenue program to improve unmet social risk factors and diabetes outcomes- A randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: Despite the burdens costs can place on adults with diabetes, few evidence-based, scalable interventions have been identified that address prevalent health-related financial burdens and unmet social risk factors that serve as major obstacles to effective diabetes management. In this study, we will test the effectiveness of CareAvenue - an automated e-health tool that screens for unmet social risk factors and informs and activates individuals to take steps to connect to resources and engage in self-care. We will determine the effectiveness of CareAvenue relative to standard care with respect to improving glycemic control and patient-centered outcomes such as cost-related non-adherence (CRN) behaviors and perceived financial burden. We will also examine the role of patient risk factors (moderators) and behavioral factors (mediators) on the effectiveness of CareAvenue in improving outcomes. We will recruit 720 patients in a large health system with uncontrolled Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) or Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) who engage in CRN or perceive financial burden. Participants will be randomized to one of two arms: 1) receipt of a 15-20 min web-based program with routine follow-up (CareAvenue); or 2) receipt of contact information for existing health system assistance services. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline and 6- and 12-month follow-up. Clinical Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT03950973, May 2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving Mental Health Care in Developing Countries Through Digital Technologies: A Mini Narrative Review of the Chilean Case.
Abstract: The uneven distribution of mental health resources contributes to the burden of mental disorders in vulnerable groups, especially in developing countries. Internet-based interventions and digital technologies can contribute to reducing the gap between high prevalence of mental disorders, demand for treatment, and access to mental health care, thereby reducing inequities in mental health. This mini review summarizes the current state of the field of e-mental health research in Chile, showing its progress, limitations, and challenges. Internet-based interventions are at an early stage of development in Chile. The interventions included are heterogeneous in terms of participants (e.g., secondary students, patients, healthcare professionals) and contexts (e.g., rural, urban, schools, primary health care), aims, and modalities (e.g., website, online games). While these studies confirmed the feasibility of Internet-based interventions, the shortage of studies on effectiveness and cost-effectiveness makes it difficult to disseminate and scale up these Internet-based programs. However, the growing amount of knowledge accumulated in the Chilean context could guide practices in other developing countries for supporting the mental health of underserved populations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Early Signs Monitoring to Prevent Relapse in Psychosis and Promote Well-Being, Engagement, and Recovery: Protocol for a Feasibility Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial Harnessing Mobile Phone Technology Blended With Peer Support.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Relapse in schizophrenia is a major cause of distress and disability and is predicted by changes in symptoms such as anxiety, depression, and suspiciousness (early warning signs [EWSs]). These can be used as the basis for timely interventions to prevent relapse. However, there is considerable uncertainty regarding the implementation of EWS interventions.
OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to establish the feasibility of conducting a definitive cluster randomized controlled trial comparing Early signs Monitoring to Prevent relapse in psychosis and prOmote Well-being, Engagement, and Recovery (EMPOWER) against treatment as usual (TAU). Our primary outcomes are establishing parameters of feasibility, acceptability, usability, safety, and outcome signals of a digital health intervention as an adjunct to usual care that is deliverable in the UK National Health Service and Australian community mental health service (CMHS) settings. We will assess the feasibility of candidate primary outcomes, candidate secondary outcomes, and candidate mechanisms for a definitive trial.
METHODS: We will randomize CMHSs to EMPOWER or TAU. We aim to recruit up to 120 service user participants from 8 CMHSs and follow them for 12 months. Eligible service users will (1) be aged 16 years and above, (2) be in contact with local CMHSs, (3) have either been admitted to a psychiatric inpatient service or received crisis intervention at least once in the previous 2 years for a relapse, and (4) have an International Classification of Diseases-10 diagnosis of a schizophrenia-related disorder. Service users will also be invited to nominate a carer to participate. We will identify the feasibility of the main trial in terms of recruitment and retention to the study and the acceptability, usability, safety, and outcome signals of the EMPOWER intervention. EMPOWER is a mobile phone app that enables the monitoring of well-being and possible EWSs of relapse on a daily basis. An algorithm calculates changes in well-being based on participants' own baseline to enable tailoring of well-being messaging and clinical triage of possible EWSs. Use of the app is blended with ongoing peer support.
RESULTS: Recruitment to the trial began September 2018, and follow-up of participants was completed in July 2019. Data collection is continuing. The database was locked in July 2019, followed by analysis and disclosing of group allocation.
CONCLUSIONS: The knowledge gained from the study will inform the design of a definitive trial including finalizing the delivery of our digital health intervention, sample size estimation, methods to ensure successful identification, consent, randomization, and follow-up of participants, and the primary and secondary outcomes. The trial will also inform the final health economic model to be applied in the main trial.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number (ISRCTN): 99559262; http://isrctn.com/ISRCTN99559262.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/15058.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of Technology in the Management of Obesity: A Literature Review.
Abstract: Technology is intended to assist with diagnosing, treating, and monitoring patients remotely. Little is known of its impact on health outcomes or how it is used for obesity management. This study reviewed the literature to identify the different types of technologies used for obesity management and their outcomes. A literature search strategy using PubMed, CINAHL, Scopus, Embase, and ABI/Inform was developed and then was vetted by two pairs of researchers. Twenty-three studies from 2010 to 2017 were identified as relevant. Mobile health, eHealth, and telehealth/telemedicine are among the most popular technologies used. Study outcome measurements include association between technology use and weight loss, changes in body mass index, dietary habits, physical activities, self-efficacy, and engagement. All studies reported positive findings between technology use and weight loss; 60 percent of the studies found statistically significant relationships. Knowledge gaps persist regarding opportunities for technology use in obesity management. Future research needs to include patient-level outcomes, cost-effectiveness, and user engagement to fully evaluate the feasibility of continued and expanded use of technology in obesity management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Who approves/pays for additional monitoring?
Abstract: Major considerations in the provision of healthcare are availability, affordability, accessibility, and appropriateness, especially in the setting of heart failure where disease burden is growing, developments have been rapid and newer biomarkers, diagnostic and imaging techniques, monitoring systems, devices, procedures, and drugs have all been developed in a relatively short period of time. Many monitoring and diagnostic systems have been developed but the disproportionate cost of conducting trials of their effectiveness has limited their uptake. There are added complexities, in that the utilization of doctors for the supervision of the monitoring results may be optimal in one setting and not in another because of differences in the characteristics of organization of healthcare provision, making even interpretation of the trials we have had, still difficult to interpret. New technologies are continuously changing the approach to healthcare and will reshape the structure of the healthcare systems in the future. Mobile technologies can empower patients and carers by giving them more control over their health and social care needs and reducing their dependence on healthcare professionals for monitoring their health, but a significant problem is the integration of the multitude of monitored parameters with clinical data and the recognition of intervention thresholds. Digital technology can help, but we need to prove its cost/efficacy and how it will be paid for. Governments in many European countries and worldwide are trying to establish frameworks that promote the convergence of standards and regulations for telemedicine solutions and yet simultaneously health authorities are closely scrutinizing healthcare spending, with the objective of reducing and optimizing expenditure in the provision of health services. There are multiple factors to be considered for the reimbursement models associated with the implementation of physiological monitoring yet it remains a challenge in cash-strapped health systems.
Label Included: 0

Title: Glaucoma screening: where are we and where do we need to go?
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Current recommendations for glaucoma screening are decidedly neutral. No studies have yet documented improved long-term outcomes for individuals who undergo glaucoma screening versus those who do not. Given the long duration that would be required to detect a benefit, future studies that may answer this question definitively are unlikely. Nevertheless, advances in artificial intelligence and telemedicine will lead to more effective screening at lower cost. With these new technologies, additional research is needed to determine the costs and benefits of screening for glaucoma.
RECENT FINDINGS: Using optic disc photographs and/or optical coherence tomography, deep learning systems appear capable of diagnosing glaucoma more accurately than human graders. Eliminating the need for expert graders along with better technologies for remote imaging of the ocular fundus will allow for less expensive screening, which could enable screening of individuals with otherwise limited healthcare access. In India and China, where most glaucoma remains undiagnosed, glaucoma screening was recently found to be cost-effective.
SUMMARY: Recent advances in artificial intelligence and telemedicine have the potential to increase the accuracy, reduce the costs, and extend the reach of screening. Further research into implementing these technologies in glaucoma screening is required.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effective/cost effective interventions of child mental health problems in low- and middle-income countries (LAMIC): Systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: This systematic review protocol aims to examine the evidence of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of interventions for children and adolescents with, or at risk of developing mental disorders in low- and middle-income countries (LAMICs).
METHODS: We will search Medline Ovid, EMBASE Ovid, PsycINFO Ovid, CINAHL, LILACS, BDENF and IBECS. We will include randomised and non-randomised controlled trials, economic modelling studies and economic evaluations. Participants are 6 to 18 year-old children and adolescents who live in a LAMIC and who present with, or are at high risk of developing, one or more of the conditions: depression, anxiety, behavioural disorders, eating disorders, psychosis, substance abuse, autism and intellectual disabilities as defined by the DSM-V. Interventions which address suicide, self-harm will also be included, if identified during the extraction process. We will include in person or e-health interventions which have some evidence of effectiveness (in relation to clinical and/or functional outcomes) and which have been delivered to young people in LAMICs. We will consider a wide range of delivery channels (e.g., in person, web-based or virtual, phone), different practitioners (healthcare practitioners, teachers, lay health care providers) and sectors (i.e., primary, secondary and tertiary health care, education, guardianship councils). In the pilot of screening procedures, 5% of all references will be screened by two reviewers. Divergences will be resolved by one expert in mental health research. Reviewers will be retrained afterwards to ensure reliability. The remaining 95% will be screened by one reviewer. Covidence web-based tool will be used to perform screening of references and full text paper, and data extraction.
RESULTS: The protocol of this systematic review will be disseminated in a peer-reviewed journal and presented at relevant conferences. The results will be presented descriptively and, if possible, meta-analysis will be conducted. Ethical approval is not needed for anonymised secondary data.
CONCLUSION: the systematic review could help health specialists and other professionals to identify evidence-based strategies to deal with child and adolescents with mental health conditions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Navigation Services to Avoid Rehospitalization among Medical/Surgical Patients with Comorbid Substance Use Disorder: Rationale and Design of a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: Substance use disorders (SUDs) are associated with significant morbidity and mortality and contribute to inefficient use of healthcare services. Hospitalized medical/surgical patients with comorbid SUD are at elevated risk of hospital readmission and poor outcomes. Thus, effective interventions are needed to help such patients during hospitalization and post-discharge. This article reports the rationale, methodological design, and progress to date on a randomized trial comparing the effectiveness of Navigation Services to Avoid Rehospitalization (NavSTAR) vs Treatmentas-Usual (TAU) for hospital medical/surgical patients with comorbid SUD (N = 400). Applying Andersen's theoretical model of health service utilization, NavSTAR employed Patient Navigation and motivational interventions to promote entry into SUD treatment, facilitate adherence to recommendations for medical follow-up and self-care, address basic needs, and prevent the recurrent use of hospital services. As part of the NavSTAR service model, Patient Navigators embedded within the SUD consultation service at a large urban hospital delivered patient-centered, proactive navigation and motivational services initiated during the hospital stay and continued for up to 3 months post-discharge. Participants randomized to TAU received usual care from the hospital and the SUD consultation service, which included referral to SUD treatment but no continued contact post-hospital discharge. Hospital service utilization will be determined via review of electronic health records and the regional Health Information Exchange. Participants were assessed at baseline and again at 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-up on various measures of healthcare utilization, substance use, and functioning. The primary outcome of interest is time-to-rehospitalization through 12 months. In addition, a range of secondary outcomes spanning the medical and SUD service areas will be assessed. The study will include a health economic evaluation of NavSTAR. If NavSTAR proves to be effective and cost-effective in this high-risk patient group, it would have important implications for addressing the needs of hospital patients with comorbid SUD, designing hospital discharge planning services, informing cost containment initiatives, and improving public health.
Label Included: 0

Title: Supporting people with type 2 diabetes in effective use of their medicine through mobile health technology integrated with clinical care (SuMMiT-D Feasibility): a randomised feasibility trial protocol.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Type 2 diabetes is common, affecting over 400 million people worldwide. Risk of serious complications can be reduced through use of effective treatments and active self-management. However, people are often concerned about starting new medicines and face difficulties in taking them regularly. Use of brief messages to provide education and support self-management, delivered through mobile phone-based text messages, can be an effective tool for some long-term conditions. We have developed messages aiming to support patients' self-management of type 2 diabetes in the use of medications and other aspects of self-management, underpinned by theory and evidence. The aim of this trial is to determine the feasibility of a large-scale clinical trial to test the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the intervention, compared with usual care.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The feasibility trial will be a multicentre individually randomised, controlled trial in primary care recruiting adults (≥35 years) with type 2 diabetes in England. Consenting participants will be randomised to receive short text messages three times a week with messages designed to produce change in medication adherence or non-health-related messages for 6 months. The aims are to test recruitment methods, retention to the study, the feasibility of data collection and the mobile phone and web-based processes of a proposed definitive trial and to refine the text messaging intervention. The primary outcome is the rate of recruitment to randomisation of participants to the trial. Data, including patient reported measures, will be collected online at baseline and the end of the 6-month follow-up period. With 200 participants (100 in each group), this trial is powered to estimate 80% follow-up within 95% CIs of 73.8% to 85.3%. The analysis will follow a prespecified plan.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approval was obtained from the West of Scotland Research Ethics Committee 05. The results will be disseminated through conference presentations, peer-reviewed journals and will be published on the trial website: www.summit-d.org (SuMMiT-D (SUpport through Mobile Messaging and digital health Technology for Diabetes)).
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN13404264.
Label Included: 0

Title: Routine Continuous Electrocardiographic Monitoring Following Percutaneous Coronary Interventions.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The clinical utility of routine electrocardiographic monitoring following percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) is not well studied.
METHODS: We prospectively evaluated the incidence, cost, and the clinical implications of actionable arrhythmia alarms on telemetry monitoring following PCI. One thousand three hundred fifty-eight PCI procedures (989 [72.8%] for acute coronary syndrome and 369 [27.2%] for stable angina) on patients admitted to nonintensive care unit were identified and divided into 2 groups; group 1, patients with actionable alarms (AA) and group 2, patients with non-AA. AA included (1) ≥3 s electrical pause or asystole; (2) high-grade Mobitz type II atrioventricular block or complete heart block; (3) ventricular fibrillation; (4) ventricular tachycardia (>15 beats); (5) atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response; (6) supraventricular tachycardia (>15 beats). Primary outcomes were 30-day all-cause mortality. Cost-savings analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Incidence of AA was 2.2% (37/1672). Time from end of procedure to AA was 5.5 (0.5, 24.5) hours. Patients with AA were older, presented with acute congestive heart failure or non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction, and had multivessel or left main disease. The 30-day all-cause mortality was significantly higher in patients with AA (6.5% versus 0.3% in non-AA [P<0.001]). Applying the standardized costing approach and tailored monitoring per the American Heart Association guidelines lead to potential cost savings of $622 480.95 for the entire population.
CONCLUSIONS: AA following PCI were infrequent but were associated with increase in 30-day mortality. Following American Heart Association guidelines for monitoring after PCI can lead to substantial cost saving.
Label Included: 0

Title: Eight-year post-trial follow-up of health care and long-term care costs of tele-based health coaching.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term effect of telephone health coaching on health care and long-term care (LTC) costs in type 2 diabetes (T2D) and coronary artery disease (CAD) patients.
DATA SOURCES/STUDY SETTING: Randomized controlled trial (RCT) data were linked to Finnish national health and social care registries and electronic health records (EHR). Post-trial eight-year economic evaluation was conducted.
STUDY DESIGN: A total of 1,535 patients (≥45 years) were randomized to the intervention (n = 1034) and control groups (n = 501). The intervention group received monthly telephone health coaching for 12 months. Usual health care and LTC were provided for both groups.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Intention-to-treat analysis showed no significant change in total health and long-term care costs (intervention effect €1248 [3 percent relative reduction], CI -6347 to 2217) in the intervention compared to the control group. There were also no significant changes among subgroups of patients with T2D or CAD.
CONCLUSIONS: Health coaching had a nonsignificant effect on health care and long-term care costs in the 8-year follow-up among patients with T2D or CAD. More research is needed to study, which patient groups, at which state of the disease trajectory of T2D and cardiovascular disease, would best benefit from health coaching.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of a Virtual Pharmacy Review Program: A Population Health Case Study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The growing emphasis on value-based health care has created a need for innovative population health management strategies. Pharmacists are underused resources for implementation of meaningful population health models that ensure appropriate medication use through optimization of electronic medical record (EMR) technology and pharmacist knowledge. The objective of our program was to improve the health outcomes of a patient population with diabetes while also reducing costs.
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION: A virtual pharmacy review (ViPRx) program was used to remotely provide previsit comprehensive medication reviews for patients in the defined population. The pharmacist used the EMR to review medications and relevant histories and to intervene when needed to ensure appropriate medication use. Pharmacist recommendations and supporting statements were delivered to the provider's EMR in-box 1-2 days before a scheduled visit. The information technology resources and virtual model allow the pharmacist to manage patient care and collaborate with providers electronically across multiple clinic locations.
OBSERVATIONS: The pharmacist managed a panel of over 700 patients in this virtual model. The program has yielded improvements in key diabetes metrics. Most notable is a 6% increase in the percentage of patients with a hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) value of 9% or less and a 7% improvement in the controlled low-density lipoprotein (LDL) measure. Monitoring parameters (nephropathy screening, HbA1c, and LDL) increased by 8%-12% from baseline. Additional positive outcomes include improved medication adherence in the defined population as seen by a 1.5% improvement in medication possession ratio for diabetes medications. Reductions in per member per month (PMPM) prescription costs are estimated at $11 per month through discontinuation of unnecessary and duplicate medications.
IMPLICATIONS: The results of this case study on the effect of a virtual pharmacy review program demonstrate an opportunity for pharmacists to engage in a population health management model that improves patient outcomes and may reduce the rate at which PMPM prescription drug costs increase.
DISCLOSURES: No outside funding supported this work. The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose. This work was presented at the 2017 Vizient Connections Summit; April 6, 2017; Las Vegas, NV, and the 2018 Cerner Health Conference; October 10, 2018; Kansas City, MO.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine Infectious Diseases Consultations and Clinical Outcomes: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine use is increasing in many specialties, but its impact on clinical outcomes in infectious diseases has not been systematically reviewed. We reviewed the current evidence for clinical effectiveness of telemedicine infectious diseases consultations, including outcomes of mortality, hospital readmission, antimicrobial use, cost, length of stay, adherence, and patient satisfaction.
METHODS: We queried Ovid MEDLINE 1946-, Embase.com 1947-, Scopus 1823-, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), and ClinicalTrials.gov 1997- through August 5, 2019, for studies looking at clinical outcomes of infectious diseases in the setting of telemedicine use. We did not restrict by language or year of publication. Clinical outcomes searched included 30-day all-cause mortality, 30-day readmissions, patient compliance/adherence, patient satisfaction, cost or cost-effectiveness, length of hospital stay, antimicrobial use, and antimicrobial stewardship. Bias was assessed using standard methodologies. PROSPERO CRD42018105225.
RESULTS: From a search pool of 1154 studies, only 18 involved telemedicine infectious diseases consultation and our selected clinical outcomes. The outcomes tracked were heterogeneous, precluding meta-analysis, and the majority of studies were of poor quality. Overall, clinical outcomes with telemedicine infectious diseases consultation seem comparable to in-person infectious diseases consultation.
CONCLUSIONS: Although in widespread use, the clinical effectiveness of telemedicine infectious diseases consultations has yet to be sufficiently studied. Further studies, or publication of previously collected and available data, are warranted to verify the cost-effectiveness of this widespread practice.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42018105225.
Label Included: 0

Title: The potential of placing a digital assistant in patients' homes.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: The current use of telehealth in ALS care and the barriers to and facilitators of implementation: a systematic review.
Abstract: Objective: We aimed to provide an overview of telehealth used in the care for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and identify the barriers to and facilitators of its implementation. Methods: We searched Pubmed and Embase to identify relevant articles. Full-text articles with original research reporting on the use of telehealth in ALS care, were included. Data were synthesized using the Consolidation Framework for Implementation Research. Two authors independently screened articles based on the inclusion criteria. Results: Sixteen articles were included that investigated three types of telehealth: Videoconferencing, home-based self-monitoring and remote NIV monitoring. Telehealth was mainly used by patients with respiratory impairment and focused on monitoring respiratory function. Facilitators for telehealth implementation were a positive attitude of patients (and caregivers) toward telehealth and the provision of training and ongoing support. Healthcare professionals were more likely to have a negative attitude toward telehealth, due to the lack of personal evaluation/contact and technical issues; this was a known barrier. Other important barriers to telehealth were lack of reimbursement and cost-effectiveness analyses. Barriers and facilitators identified in this review correspond to known determinants found in other healthcare settings. Conclusions: Our findings show that telehealth in ALS care is well-received by patients and their caregivers. Healthcare professionals, however, show mixed experiences and perceive barriers to telehealth use. Challenges related to finance and legislation may hinder telehealth implementation in ALS care. Future research should report the barriers and facilitators of implementation and determine the cost-effectiveness of telehealth.
Label Included: 0

Title: Exploring Doctors' Willingness to Provide Online Counseling Services: The Roles of Motivations and Costs.
Abstract: With the impetus of information communication technology (ICT), emerging eHealth has attracted increasing number of doctors' participation in online health platforms, which provide various potential benefits to doctors. However, previous studies on eHealth have seldom distinguished different service modes provided by doctors. In addition, the bulk of the literature has considered doctors' motivations based solely on online environments. To fill this gap, this study combines expectancy theory and the Bagozzi, Dholakia, and Basuroy (BDB) model to examine the relationships between anticipated outcomes, performance expectations, and effort intentions from online and offline perspectives. Doctors' behavioral intentions are further divided into two categories: the willingness to offer free services and paid services. Using SmartPLS, this study conducts structural equation modeling (SEM) to analyze 311 sample data. The results show that extrinsic motivations (i.e., extrinsic rewards, expected relationships, and image) and intrinsic motivation (i.e., a sense of self-worth) significantly influence the desire to serve patients well, which in turn positively affects the willingness to offer free services and the willingness to offer paid services. Moreover, counseling time is confirmed as the main cost, which negatively moderates the relationships between desire and behavioral intentions. The findings provide theoretical insights for eHealth and provide practical suggestions to develop marketing strategies for online health platform providers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Non-contact smartphone-based fundus imaging compared to conventional fundus imaging: a low-cost alternative for retinopathy of prematurity screening and documentation.
Abstract: Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) is a frequent cause of treatable childhood blindness. The current dependency of telemedicine-based ROP screening on cost-intensive equipment does not meet the needs in economically disadvantaged regions. Smartphone-based fundus imaging (SBFI) allows for affordable and mobile fundus examination and, therefore, could facilitate cost-effective telemedicine-based ROP screening in low-resources settings. We compared non-contact SBFI and conventional contact fundus imaging (CFI) in terms of feasibility for ROP screening and documentation. Twenty-six eyes were imaged with both SBFI and CFI. Field-of-view was smaller (ratio of diameters, 1:2.5), level of detail was equal, and examination time was longer for SBFI as compared to CFI (109.0 ± 57.8 vs. 75.9 ± 36.3 seconds, p < 0.01). Good agreement with clinical evaluation by indirect funduscopy was achieved for assessment of plus disease and ROP stage for both SBFI (squared Cohen's kappa, 0.88 and 0.81, respectively) and CFI (0.86 and 0.93). Likewise, sensitivity/specificity for detection of plus disease and ROP was high for both SBFI (90%/100% and 88%/93%, respectively) and CFI (80%/100% and 100%/96%). SBFI is a non-contact and low-cost alternative to CFI for ROP screening and documentation that has the potential to considerably improve ROP care in middle- and low-resources settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Systematic Review of Digital Interventions for Pediatric Asthma Management.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pediatric patients with asthma take only approximately half of their prescribed medication. Digital interventions to improve adherence for youth with asthma exist and have the potential to improve accessibility, cost-effectiveness, and customizability.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically review published research examining digital interventions to promote adherence to the treatment of pediatric asthma.
METHODS: A systematic search of the PubMed, Scopus, CINAHL, PsycINFO, and reference review databases was conducted. Articles were included if adherence was an outcome in a randomized controlled trial of a digital intervention for children with asthma. We compared samples, intervention characteristics, adherence measurement and outcomes, as well as additional health outcomes across studies.
RESULTS: Of the 264 articles reviewed, 15 studies met inclusion criteria and were included in the review. Overall, 87% of the digital interventions demonstrated improved adherence and 53% demonstrated improved health outcomes. All the promising interventions included a behavioral component and most were 3 to 6 months in length, delivered through a digital stand-alone medium (eg, automated personalized texts, mobile health apps, and website), and assessed adherence to controller medication.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, digital interventions aimed at improving adherence are promising and also improve health outcomes in addition to medication adherence. Although future studies using evidence-based adherence assessment and multifactorial design should be conducted, the current literature suggests that both digital stand-alone interventions and interventions combining digital technology with support from a health care team member result in improved adherence and asthma outcomes. Recommendations for digital interventions for pediatric patients with asthma with adherence concerns are provided.
Label Included: 0

Title: Prevalence of adjustment disorder among cancer patients, and the reach, effectiveness, cost-utility and budget impact of tailored psychological treatment: study protocol of a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Information on the prevalence of adjustment disorders among cancer patients and the value of psychological interventions in this group of patients is limited. This study investigates the prevalence of adjustment disorders among cancer patients as well as the reach, effectiveness, cost-utility and budget impact of a tailored psychological intervention.
METHOD: This study consists of two parts. Part 1 is an observational study among a representative group of mixed cancer patients after cancer treatment on the prevalence of adjustment disorder as well as the uptake (i.e. reach) of psychological treatment. In Part 2, patients diagnosed with an adjustment disorder are invited to participate in a randomized controlled trial. Patients will be randomized to the intervention (access to the tailored psychological intervention) or control group (waitlist period of 6 months). The psychological intervention consists of three modules: one module containing psycho-education (3 sessions, all patients) and two additional modules (maximum of 6 sessions per module) provided as continuum, in case needed. Module 2 and 3 can consist of several evidence-based interventions (e.g. group interventions, mindfulness, eHealth) The primary outcome is psychological distress (HADS). Secondary outcomes are mental adjustment to cancer (MAC) and health-related quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30). To assess the cost-utility and budget impact, quality of life (EQ-5D-5 L) and costs (iMCQ and iPCQ) will be measured. Measures will be completed at baseline and 3 and 6-months after randomization.
DISCUSSION: This study will provide data of the prevalence of adjustment disorders and the reach, effectiveness, cost-utility and budget impact of a tailored psychological intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register identifier: NL7763. Registered on 3 June 2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Beyond forest plots: clinical gestalt and its influence on COPD telemonitoring studies and outcomes review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive chronic condition. Improvements in therapies have resulted in better patient outcomes. The use of technology such as telemonitoring as an additional intervention is aimed at enhancing care and reducing unnecessary acute hospital service use. The influence of verbal communication between health staff and patients to inform decision making regarding use of acute hospital services within telemonitoring studies has not been assessed.
METHOD: A systematic overview of published systematic reviews of COPD and telemonitoring was conducted using an a priori protocol to ascertain the impact of verbal communication in telemonitoring studies on health service outcomes such as emergency department attendances, hospitalisation and hospital length of stay. The search of the following electronic databases: Cochrane Library, Medline, Pubmed, CINAHL, Embase, TROVE, Australian Digital Thesis and Proquest International Dissertations and Theses was conducted in 2017 and updated in September 2019.
RESULTS: Six systematic reviews were identified. All reviews involved home monitoring of COPD symptoms and biometric data. Included reviews reported 5-28 studies with sample sizes ranging from 310 to 2891 participants. Many studies reported in the systematic reviews were excluded as they were telephone support, cost effectiveness studies, and/or did not report the outcomes of interest for this overview. Irrespective of group assignment, verbal communication with the health or research team did not alter the emergency attendance or hospitalisation outcome. The length of stay was longer for those who were assigned home telemonitoring in the majority of studies.
CONCLUSION: This overview of telemonitoring for COPD had small sample sizes and a wide variety of included studies. Communication was not consistent in all included studies. Understanding the context of communication with study participants and the decision-making process for referring patients to various health services needs to be reported in future studies of telemonitoring and COPD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of home-based postpartum care on neonatal mortality and exclusive breastfeeding practice in low-and-middle-income countries: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Early postpartum facility discharge negatively impacts mothers' proper and effective use postnatal care. Cognizant of these facts, home-based postnatal care practices have been promoted to complement facility-based care to reduce neonatal mortality. This systematic review evaluated the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of home-based postnatal care on exclusive breastfeeding practice and neonatal mortality in low-and-middle-income countries.
METHODS: Randomized trials and quasi-experimental studies were searched from electronic databases including PubMed, Popline, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and National Health Service Economic Evaluation databases. Random-effects meta-analysis model was used to pool the estimates of the outcomes accounting for the variability among studies.
RESULTS: We identified 14 trials implementing intervention packages that included preventive and promotive newborn care services, home-based treatment for sick neonates, and community mobilization activities. The pooled analysis indicates that home-based postpartum care reduced neonatal mortally by 24% (risk ratio 0.76; 95% confidence interval 0.62-0.92; 9 trials; n = 93,083; heterogeneity p < .01) with no evidence of publication bias (Egger's test: Coef. = - 1.263; p = .130). The subgroup analysis suggested that frequent home visits, home visits by community health workers, and community mobilization efforts with home visits, to had better neonatal survival. Likewise, the odds of mothers who exclusively breastfed from the home visit group were about three times higher than the mothers who were in the routine care group (odds ratio: 2.88; 95% confidence interval: 1.57-5.29; 6 trials; n = 20,624 mothers; heterogeneity p < .01), with low possibility of publication bias (Coef. = - 7.870; p = .164). According to the World Health Organization's Choosing Interventions that are Cost-Effective project recommendations, home-based neonatal care strategy was found to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Home visits and community mobilization activities to promote neonatal care practices by community health workers is associated with reduced neonatal mortality, increased practice of exclusive breastfeeding, and cost-effective in improving newborn health outcomes for low-and-middle-income countries. However, a well-designed evaluation study is required to formulate the optimal package and optimal timing of home visits to standardize home-based postnatal interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Complex Wound Healing Outcomes for Outpatients Receiving Care via Telemedicine, Home Health, or Wound Clinic: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: Use of telemedicine has expanded rapidly in recent years, yet there are few comparative studies to determine its effectiveness in wound care. To provide experimental data in the field of telemedicine with regard to wound care, a pilot project named "Domoplaies" was publicly funded in France in 2011. A randomized, controlled trial was performed to measure the outcomes of patients with complex wounds who received home wound care from a local clinician guided by an off-site wound care expert via telemedicine, versus patients who received in-home or wound clinic visits with wound care professionals. The publicly funded network of nurses and physicians highly experienced in wound healing was used to provide wound care recommendations via telemedicine for the study. The healing rate at 6 months was slightly better for patients who received wound care via telemedicine (61/89; 68.5%) versus wound care professional at home (38/59; 64.4%) versus wound care clinic (22/35; 62.9%), but the difference was not significant (P = .860833). The average time to healing for the 121/183 wounds that healed within 6 months was 66.8 ± 32.8 days for the telemedicine group, 69.3 ± 26.7 for the wound care professional at home group, and 55.8 ± 25.0 days for the wound care clinic group. Transportation costs for the telemedicine and home health care groups were significantly lower than the wound clinic group, and death rate was similar between all the 3 groups (P < .01). Telemedicine performed by wound healing clinicians working in a network setting offered a safe option to remotely manage comorbid, complex wound care patients with reduced mobility.
Label Included: 0

Title: DIVERT-Collaboration Action Research and Evaluation (CARE) Trial Protocol: a multiprovincial pragmatic cluster randomised trial of cardiorespiratory management in home care.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Home care clients are increasingly medically complex, have limited access to effective chronic disease management and have very high emergency department (ED) visitation rates. There is a need for more appropriate and targeted supportive chronic disease management for home care clients. We aim to evaluate the effectiveness and preliminary cost effectiveness of a targeted, person-centred cardiorespiratory management model.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The Detection of Indicators and Vulnerabilities of Emergency Room Trips (DIVERT) - Collaboration Action Research and Evaluation (CARE) trial is a pragmatic, cluster-randomised, multicentre superiority trial of a flexible multicomponent cardiorespiratory management model based on the best practice guidelines. The trial will be conducted in partnership with three regional, public-sector, home care providers across Canada. The primary outcome of the trial is the difference in time to first unplanned ED visit (hazard rate) within 6 months. Additional secondary outcomes are to identify changes in patient activation, changes in cardiorespiratory symptom frequencies and cost effectiveness over 6 months. We will also investigate the difference in the number of unplanned ED visits, number of inpatient hospitalisations and changes in health-related quality of life. Multilevel proportional hazard and generalised linear models will be used to test the primary and secondary hypotheses. Sample size simulations indicate that enrolling 1100 home care clients across 36 clusters (home care caseloads) will yield a power of 81% given an HR of 0.75.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approval was obtained from the Hamilton Integrated Research Ethics Board as well as each participating site's ethics board. Results will be submitted for publication in peer-reviewed journals and for presentation at relevant conferences. Home care service partners will also be informed of the study's results. The results will be used to inform future support strategies for older adults receiving home care services.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03012256.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hospital-Level Care at Home for Acutely Ill Adults: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Substitutive hospital-level care in a patient's home may reduce cost, health care use, and readmissions while improving patient experience, although evidence from randomized controlled trials in the United States is lacking.
OBJECTIVE: To compare outcomes of home hospital versus usual hospital care for patients requiring admission.
DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial. (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03203759).
SETTING: Academic medical center and community hospital.
PATIENTS: 91 adults (43 home and 48 control) admitted via the emergency department with selected acute conditions.
INTERVENTION: Acute care at home, including nurse and physician home visits, intravenous medications, remote monitoring, video communication, and point-of-care testing.
MEASUREMENTS: The primary outcome was the total direct cost of the acute care episode (sum of costs for nonphysician labor, supplies, medications, and diagnostic tests). Secondary outcomes included health care use and physical activity during the acute care episode and at 30 days.
RESULTS: The adjusted mean cost of the acute care episode was 38% (95% CI, 24% to 49%) lower for home patients than control patients. Compared with usual care patients, home patients had fewer laboratory orders (median per admission, 3 vs. 15), imaging studies (median, 14% vs. 44%), and consultations (median, 2% vs. 31%). Home patients spent a smaller proportion of the day sedentary (median, 12% vs. 23%) or lying down (median, 18% vs. 55%) and were readmitted less frequently within 30 days (7% vs. 23%).
LIMITATION: The study involved 2 sites, a small number of home physicians, and a small sample of highly selected patients (with a 63% refusal rate among potentially eligible patients); these factors may limit generalizability.
CONCLUSION: Substitutive home hospitalization reduced cost, health care use, and readmissions while increasing physical activity compared with usual hospital care.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Partners HealthCare Center for Population Health and internal departmental funds.
Label Included: 0

Title: International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) (November 4-6, 2019 - Copenhagen, Denmark).
Abstract: With 2019 shaping up to be another significant year for health economics and outcomes research, and increasingly innovative health technologies affecting both the cost and impact of healthcare decisions, rapid change is affecting healthcare systems in real time. The theme of this year's International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) Europe annual meeting was centered on digital transformation of healthcare; over 4,000 attendees from over 90 countries spent the day in the discussion of the changing roles and shared responsibilities of increased digitization, which involves major changes not only in technology but also in the way care is organized and delivered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Addressing cost and time barriers in chronic disease management through telemedicine: an exploratory research in select low- and middle-income countries.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite evidence supporting telehealth provision in developed countries, there is limited evidence regarding its economic benefits for patients living in areas where access and cost present major barriers to health care, particularly in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). This study explores the economic benefits of telemedicine for patients, in terms of cost and times savings, and its potential role in improving chronic disease outcomes.
METHODS: This retrospective cross-sectional study compared telemedicine services with hypothetical in-person consultations, with a focus on patient travel time and travel cost savings. A database containing teleconsultation visits (N = 25,182) conducted at health facilities in remote regions of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and the Kyrgyz Republic, was analyzed. A two-sample homoscedastic t test was used to determine differences between the two groups. A one-way sensitivity analysis was also conducted, presuming in-person teleconsultations at 90%, 75%, and 50%.
RESULTS: The study extracted data from 25,182 teleconsultation visits (12,814 males; 12,368 females). The cumulative patient savings through the program amounted to USD 9,175,132, and 1,876,146 h, or 213.1 years. A significant difference was seen between the two groups in terms of mean time savings (p-value <0.05), and a nearly significant difference was observed in terms of mean cost savings (p-value = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that considerable economic benefits imparted to patients in low-resource settings of LMICs via accessing telemedicine. Telemedicine has great potential to improve chronic disease outcomes in low-resource areas by reducing socioeconomic barriers related to cost and access, and increasing uptake of services, thereby enabling early intervention and long-term management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote programming: A convenient and cost-effective measure of vagus nerve stimulation for children with epilepsy.
Abstract: This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy, adverse events and expense burden of outpatient versus remote programming for vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) in children with epilepsy. A total of 46 children with drug-resistant epilepsy, who underwent VNS at the Pediatric Epilepsy Center, Peking University First Hospital between March 2017 and June 2018, were enrolled into the study. Participants were assigned (non-randomized) into an outpatient programming group or remote programming group (where VNS parameters were adjusted through the internet) by parental choice. The responder rate, expenditure for VNS programming and adverse events were compared between the two groups. The median age at VNS implantation was 5.17 years (3.83-6.71), with the median epileptic course being 3.79 years (2.65-4.90). Twenty-four patients were assigned to the outpatient programming group and 22 were assigned to the remote programming group. Baseline data were comparable between the two groups, with the exception of the remote group having a longer distance between their place of residence and the hospital. The median time from VNS implantation to last follow-up was 1.33 years (1.25-1.75) and 1.46 years (1.17-1.58) in the outpatient and remote groups, respectively. In the outpatient programming group, 15 patients (62.5 %,) were VNS responders and four patients (16.6 %) became seizure-free. In the remote programming group, 16 patients (72.7 %) were VNS responders and four (17.4 %) became seizure-free. Cough and hoarseness were common adverse events in both the outpatient and remote groups (33.3 % vs. 18.2 %). There were no significant differences between the two groups in terms of adverse events. The median cost of each follow-up visit per patient in the outpatient group was 192.4 US dollars ($120.0-$376.5), of which travelling expenses were the major component, followed by accommodation fees, outpatient service fees and indirect costs. Whereas, patients in the remote programming group only needed to pay for the remote programming expense, which totaled 75.8 US dollars per person each time. The efficacy and adverse events were both comparable between the outpatient and remote programming patients. Remote programming was found to be a more cost-effective treatment, especially for patients living further away from centers specializing in epilepsy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tele-psychiatric after care clinic for the continuity of care: A pilot study from an academic hospital.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is a need of continuity of care research in psychiatric disorders to deal two important issues such as accessibility of psychiatrists, and travel.
AIMS: This pilot was designed to evaluate the acceptability, feasibility, possible clinical effectiveness and cost benefit of video based tele-psychiatric aftercare (TAC) clinic from an academic hospital.
METHODS: Fifty selected patients were recruited to provide direct video-consultations (DVC).
RESULTS: This study shows higher score on acceptability, satisfaction and respect to privacy on these TAC.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: This is first pilot study as one of the patient friendly and less expensive continuity of care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of telephone coaching for physically inactive ambulatory care hospital patients: economic evaluation alongside the Healthy4U randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess whether telephone coaching is a cost-effective method for increasing physical activity and health-related quality of life for insufficiently active adults presenting to an ambulatory care clinic in a public hospital.
DESIGN: An economic evaluation was performed alongside a randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Participants were recruited from an ambulatory care clinic in a public hospital in regional Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: Seventy-two adults (aged 18-69) deemed insufficiently physically active via self-report.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomised to either an intervention group that received an education session and eight sessions of telephone coaching over a 12-week period, or to a control group that received the education session only. The intervention used in the telephone coaching was integrated motivational interviewing and cognitive behavioural therapy.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary health outcome was change in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), objectively measured via accelerometry. The secondary outcome was the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) determined by the 12-item Short Form Health Survey Questionnaire. Outcome data were measured at baseline, postintervention (3 months) and follow-up (6 months). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated for each outcome. Non-parametric bootstrapping techniques and sensitivity analyses were performed to account for uncertainty.
RESULTS: The mean intervention cost was $279±$13 per person. At 6 months follow-up, relative to control, the intervention group undertook 18 more minutes of daily MVPA at an ICER of $15/min for each additional minute of MVPA. With regard to QALYs, the intervention yielded an ICER of $36 857 per QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses indicated that results were robust to varied assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Telephone coaching was a low-cost strategy for increasing MVPA and QALYs in insufficiently physically active ambulatory care hospital patients. Additional research could explore the potential economic impact of the intervention from a broader healthcare perspective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ANZCTR: ACTRN12616001331426.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Development and national rollout of electronic decision support systems using artificial intelligence in the field of onco-hematology].
Abstract: Systematic, structured and longitudinal collection of realtime Big Patient Data and the analysis of aggregated diagnostic, therapeutic and therapy response data of onco-hematologic patients leads to the development of nationwide dynamic disease registries providing a platform for medical, health industrial and data science research, hospital and health insurance cost analysis, measurement of innovative diagnostics and therapeutics performance, evaluation of compassion-based treatments and general support for insurance and health policy decisions. First in Hungary, we developed a complex computerized case management, data collection, processing, and analysis program (OncoGenomic) and a self-learning artificial intelligence (AI) precision medicine decision support application (Oncompass Calculator) that organize basic research (R), applied research and development (R and D) and innovation (I) under a common umbrella. These progams support the national dynamic hematologic disease registry. Exchange of data through the Electronic Health Service Space (EESZT) supports equal opportunity access of patients to innovative diagnostics and therapy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Understanding Implementation of a Digital Self-Monitoring Intervention for Relapse Prevention in Psychosis: Protocol for a Mixed Method Process Evaluation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Relapse is common in people who experience psychosis and is associated with many negative consequences, both societal and personal. People who relapse often exhibit changes (early warning signs [EWS]) in the period before relapse. Successful identification of EWS offers an opportunity for relapse prevention. However, several known barriers impede the use of EWS monitoring approaches. Early signs Monitoring to Prevent relapse in psychosis and prOmote Well-being, Engagement, and Recovery (EMPOWER) is a complex digital intervention that uses a mobile app to enhance the detection and management of self-reported changes in well-being. This is currently being tested in a pilot cluster randomized controlled trial. As digital interventions have not been widely used in relapse prevention, little is known about their implementation. Process evaluation studies run in parallel to clinical trials can provide valuable data on intervention feasibility.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to transparently describe the protocol for the process evaluation element of the EMPOWER trial. We will focus on the development of a process evaluation framework sensitive to the worldview of service users, mental health staff, and carers; the aims of the process evaluation itself; the proposed studies to address these aims; and a plan for integration of results from separate process evaluation studies into one overall report.
METHODS: The overall process evaluation will utilize mixed methods across 6 substudies. Among them, 4 will use qualitative methodologies, 1 will use a mixed methods approach, and 1 will use quantitative methodologies.
RESULTS: The results of all studies will be triangulated into an overall analysis and interpretation of key implementation lessons. EMPOWER was funded in 2016, recruitment finished in January 2018. Data analysis is currently under way and the first results are expected to be submitted for publication in December 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings from this study will help identify implementation facilitators and barriers to EMPOWER. These insights will inform both upscaling decisions and optimization of a definitive trial.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Registry ISRCTN99559262; http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN99559262.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/15634.
Label Included: 0

Title: Analysis of the Implementation, User Perspectives, and Feedback From a Mobile Health Intervention for Individuals Living With Hypertension (DREAM-GLOBAL): Mixed Methods Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: DREAM-GLOBAL (Diagnosing hypertension-Engaging Action and Management in Getting Lower Blood Pressure in Indigenous and low- and middle-income countries) studied a SMS text messaging-based system for blood pressure measurement and hypertension management in Canadian Aboriginal and Tanzanian communities. The use of SMS text messages is an emerging point of interest in global health care initiatives because of their scalability, customizability, transferability, and cost-effectiveness.
OBJECTIVE: The study aim was to assess the effect on the difference in blood pressure reduction of active hypertension management messages or passive health behavior messages. The system was designed to be implemented in remote areas with wireless availability. This study described the implementation and evaluation of technical components, including quantitative data from the transmission of blood pressure measurements and qualitative data collected on the operational aspects of the system from participants, health care providers, and community leadership.
METHODS: The study was implemented in six remote Indigenous Canadian and two rural Tanzanian communities. Blood pressure readings were taken by a community health worker and transmitted to a mobile phone via Bluetooth, then by wireless to a programmed central server. From the server, the readings were sent to the participant's own phone as well. Participants also received biweekly tailored SMS text messages on their phones. Quantitative data on blood pressure reading transmissions were collected from the study central server. Qualitative data were collected by surveys, focus groups, and key informant interviews of participants, health care providers, and health leadership.
RESULTS: In Canada, between February 2014 and February 2017, 2818 blood pressure readings from 243 patients were transmitted to the central server. In Tanzania, between October 2014 and August 2015, 1165 readings from 130 patients were transmitted to the central server. The use of Bluetooth technology enabled the secure, reliable transmission of information from participants to their health care provider. The timing and frequency were satisfactory to 137 of 187 (73.2%) of participants, supporting the process of sending weekly messages twice on Mondays and Thursdays at 11 am. A total of 97.0% (164/169) of the participants surveyed said they would recommend participation in the DREAM-GLOBAL program to a friend or relative with hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: In remote communities, the DREAM-GLOBAL study helped local health care providers deliver a blood pressure management program that enabled patients and community workers to feel connected. The technical components of the study were implemented as planned, and patients felt supported in their management through the SMS text messaging and mobile health program. Technological issues were solved with troubleshooting. Overall, the technical aspects of this research program enhanced clinical care and study evaluation and were well received by participants, health care workers, and community leadership.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02111226; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02111226.
Label Included: 0

Title: An app-, web- and social support-based weight loss intervention for adults with obesity: the HelpMeDoIt! feasibility RCT
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Finding solutions to rising levels of obesity continues to be a major public health focus. Social support has an important role in successful weight loss, and digital interventions can reach a large proportion of the population at low cost.
OBJECTIVE: To develop and assess the feasibility and acceptability of an application (app), web- and social support-based intervention in supporting adults with obesity to achieve weight loss goals.
DESIGN: Stage 1 – intervention development phase involved three focus groups (n = 10) with users, and think-aloud interviews and field testing with another group (n = 28). Stage 2 – the intervention and evaluation methods were explored in a feasibility randomised controlled trial with economic and process evaluation.
SETTING: Greater Glasgow and Clyde, UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults with a body mass index of ≥ 30kg/m2 who owned a smartphone and were interested in losing weight were randomised 2 : 1 (intervention : control) and followed up at 12 months. Recruitment took place in April–October 2016.
INTERVENTIONS: The intervention group had access to HelpMeDoIt! for 12 months. This encouraged them to (1) set goals, (2) monitor progress and (3) harness social support by inviting ‘helpers’ from their existing social network. The control group received a healthy lifestyle leaflet.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Data from stage 1 informed the intervention design. Key measures in stage 2 assessed the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention and trial methods against prespecified progression criteria. Three primary outcomes were explored: body mass index, diet and physical activity. Secondary outcomes included weight, waist and hip circumference, social support, self-efficacy, motivation, mental health, health-related quality of life, NHS resource use, participant-borne costs and intervention costs. Qualitative interviews with participants (n = 26) and helpers (n = 9) explored the feasibility and acceptability of the trial methods and intervention.
RESULTS: Stage 1 produced (1) a website that provided evidence-based information for lifestyle change and harnessing social support, and (2) an app that facilitated goal-setting, self-monitoring and supportive interaction between participants and their helper(s). Progression criteria were met, demonstrating that the intervention and trial methods were feasible and acceptable. A total of 109 participants (intervention, n = 73; control, n = 36) were recruited, with 84 participants (77%: intervention, 71%; control, 89%) followed up at 12 months. Data were successfully collected for most outcome measures (≥ 82% completion). Participants and helpers were generally positive, although helper engagement with the app was low. Of the 54 (74%) participants who downloaded the app, 48 (89%) used it twice or more, 28 helpers enrolled via the app, and 19 (36%) participants interacted with their helper(s) via the app. Interview data indicated that HelpMeDoIt! prompted support from helpers that often occurred without the helpers using the app.
LIMITATIONS: Early technical problems meant that some participants and helpers had difficulty accessing the app. Ethical constraints meant that we were unable to contact helpers directly for interview.
CONCLUSIONS: The HelpMeDoIt! study demonstrated that a weight loss intervention delivered via an app and a website is feasible and acceptable. Progression criteria were met, supporting further evaluation of the intervention.
FUTURE WORK: To further explore (1) the motivation and engagement of helpers, (2) the programme theory and (3) the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN85615983.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Public Health Research programme and will be published in full in Public Health Research; Vol. 8, No. 3. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-utility of a multifaceted eHealth strategy to improve back pain beliefs of patients with non-specific low back pain: a cluster randomised trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and cost-utility of a multifaceted eHealth strategy compared to usual care in improving patients' back pain beliefs, and in decreasing disability and absenteeism.
DESIGN: Stepped-wedge cluster randomised trial with parallel economic evaluation.
SETTING: Dutch primary healthcare.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients diagnosed with non-specific low back pain by their general practitioner or physiotherapist. Patients with serious comorbidities or confirmed pregnancy were excluded. 779 patients were randomised into intervention group (n=331, 59% female; 60.4% completed study) or control group (n=448, 57% female; 77.5% completed study).
INTERVENTIONS: The intervention consisted of a multifaceted eHealth strategy that included a (mobile) website, digital monthly newsletters, and social media platforms. The website provided information about back pain, practical advice (eg, on self-management), working and returning to work with back pain, exercise tips, and short video messages from healthcare providers and patients providing information and tips. The control consisted of a digital patient information letter. Patients and outcome assessors were blinded to group allocation.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was back pain beliefs. Secondary outcome measures were disability and absenteeism, and for the preplanned economic evaluation quality of life and societal costs were measured.
RESULTS: There were no between-group differences in back pain beliefs, disability, or absenteeism. Mean intervention costs were €70- and the societal cost difference was €535-in favour of the intervention group, but no significant cost savings were found. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio indicated that the intervention dominated usual care and the probability of cost-effectiveness was 0.85 on a willingness-to-pay of €10.000/quality adjusted life year (QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: A multifaceted eHealth strategy was not effective in improving patients' back pain beliefs or in decreasing disability and absenteeism, but showed promising cost-utility results based on QALYs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NTR4329.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Antihypertensive Therapy in Patients Older Than 80 Years: Cohort Study and Markov Model.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Blood pressure and antihypertensive treatment (AHT) generally increase with age, but there is uncertainty concerning the value of treatment at very advanced ages.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of AHT in people aged 80 years and older.
METHODS: A Markov model compared AHT with no blood pressure treatment for prevention of cardiovascular disease. Outcomes were new stroke, coronary heart disease, and diabetes, with falls included as a potential complication of AHT. Costs were evaluated from a health system perspective. Incidence, mortality, and costs of healthcare utilization were estimated from linked primary and secondary care electronic health records for 98 220 individuals aged 80 years and older. Clinical effectiveness estimates were from the Hypertension in the Very Elderly Trial. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: In the base case, AHT was associated with an additional 725 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and £4.3 million per 1000, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £5977 per QALY. The ICER was most sensitive to the cost of falls and relative risk reduction in stroke incidence. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis gave 95% uncertainty intervals: £5057 to £8398 per QALY in men and £4955 to £8218 per QALY in women. AHT for secondary prevention in participants with coronary heart disease gave an ICER of £9903 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: AHT is estimated to be cost-effective in individuals aged 80 years and older, even if health benefits are smaller or side effects costlier than in the base case. Benefits and harms for vulnerable subgroups require further evaluation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Multifactorial e- and mHealth interventions for cardiovascular disease primary prevention: Protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are a leading cause of mortality and disease burden. Preventative interventions to augment the population-level adoption of health lifestyle behaviours that reduce CVD risk are a priority. Face-to-face interventions afford individualisation and are effective for improving health-related behaviours and outcomes, but they are costly and resource intensive. Electronic and mobile health (e- and mHealth) approaches aimed at modifying lifestyle risk factors may be an effective and scalable approach to reach many individuals while preserving individualisation. This systematic review aims to (a) determine the effectiveness of multifactorial e- and mHealth interventions on CVD risk and on lifestyle-related cardiometabolic risk factors and self-management behaviours among adults without CVD; and (b) describe the evidence on adverse events and on the cost-effectiveness of these interventions.
METHODS: Methods were detailed prior to the start of the review in order to improve conduct and prevent inconsistent decision making throughout the review. This protocol was prepared following the PRISMA-P 2015 statement. MEDLINE, CINAHL, Embase, PsycINFO, Web of Science, Cochrane Public Health Group Specialised Register and CENTRAL electronic databases will be searched between 1991 and September 2019. Eligibility criteria are: (a) population: community-dwelling adults; (b) intervention/comparison: randomised controlled trials comparing e- or mHealth CVD risk preventative interventions with usual care; and (c) outcomes: modifiable CVD risk factors. Selection of study reports will involve two authors independently screening titles and abstracts, followed by a full-text review of potentially eligible reports. Two authors will independently undertake data extraction and assess risk of bias. Where appropriate, meta-analysis of outcome data will be performed.
DISCUSSION: This protocol describes the pre-specified methods for a systematic review that will provide quantitative and narrative syntheses of current multifactorial e- and mHealth CVD preventative interventions. A systematic review and meta-analysis will be conducted following the methods outlined in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and reported according to PRISMA guidelines.
Label Included: 0

Title: Study protocol of the BLANKET trial: a cluster randomised controlled trial on the (cost-) effectiveness of a primary care intervention for fear of cancer recurrence in cancer survivors.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Many successfully treated patients with cancer suffer from fear of cancer recurrence (FCR), affecting their quality of life and their physical, emotional, cognitive and social functioning. Effective psychological interventions for FCR exist but are not widely available, as they are typically offered by specialised psycho-oncology professionals and institutes. Concurrently, the role of primary care in cancer and survivorship care is increasing. Therefore, there could be a role for general practitioners (GPs) and mental health workers (MHWs) working in primary care in supporting patients with FCR. In the current study, the effectiveness of a primary care delivered FCR intervention will be evaluated.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A two-armed cluster randomised trial will be conducted. The primary outcome will be FCR severity; secondary outcomes will be FCR-related distress, healthcare uptake and healthcare costs. Primary care practices in the Netherlands will be invited to participate in the study. Participating practices will be stratified by size and socioeconomic status and randomised. In the control arm, practices will provide care as usual. In the intervention arm, practices will offer the cognitive-behavioural FCR intervention that is being studied, which consists of an intake with the GP and five sessions with the MHW. Patients who have finished successful curative treatment for cancer between 3 months and 10 years ago will be invited to participate in the study by invitation letter from their GPs. Participating patients will fill out questionnaires at baseline, after 3 months and after 12 months. Data on healthcare use will be collected from their electronic health records. Qualitative interviews are held at T1 with patients and practitioners in the intervention group.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The Medical Research Ethics Committee (METC) Utrecht has reviewed the study in accordance with the Dutch Medical Research Involving Human Subjects Act (WMO) and other applicable Dutch and European regulations. Based on the requirements of the WMO, the METC Utrecht has issued an approval of the above-mentioned study. Any protocol amendments will be communicated to all relevant parties. Written consent is obtained from study participants. Results will be dispersed through peer-reviewed publications and scientific presentations.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NL7573 in the Netherlands Trial Register on 25-02-2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine Technologies and Tuberculosis Management: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: Background: Since 1990s, directly observed therapy (DOT) has been the standard-of-care for tuberculosis (TB), although it is cumbersome for patients as well as service providers. For raising implementation, an alternative delivery method with good potential is telehealth. The current study assessed the clinical and cost benefit of video directly observed therapy (VDOT), compared with DOT service. Methods: This prospective randomized controlled trial randomized adults with bacteriologically confirmed pulmonary TB to the intervention (VDOT) or control (DOT) group. The observation data for DOT and VDOT were updated by observers until the end of treatment or until the study concluded. The primary outcome was the TB treatment result defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as used in some other studies conducted in North India and England as follows: good (cured and treatment completed), poor (death and failure), relocation, and lost to follow-up and others (refused, adverse reaction, not a TB case). Other secondary measures were treatment adherence, patient satisfaction, time and cost spent on DOT or VDOT. Results: On analyzing the results from 405 participants from each study arm, we found very high rates of treatment completion (96.1% with VDOT vs. 94.6% with DOT). The two observed treatment methods had no statistical differences, and all could accomplish their tasks well. Average time per dose observed was 16.5 min (standard deviation [SD] 12.1) for VDOT, while 44.1 min (SD 3.7) for DOT (including travel time), p < 0.01. And the cost incurred on VDOT was ￥34.3 (SD 3.8) manmo, which was statistically lower compared with ￥71.6 (SD 49.7) manmo in the DOT group, p < 0.01. Most of the patients in both groups believed that observed treatment (VDOT/DOT) helped them not to miss doses (185 [93.0%] vs. 171 [86.7%], p = 0.057). Patients in the VDOT group had a better experience compared with those in DOT group. They thought the way was convenient and comfortable (191 [96.0%] vs. 111 [56.6%], p < 0.001), would choose the original way if necessary (191 [96.0%] vs. 113 [57.7%], p < 0.001), and would recommend the method to other patients (191 [96.0%] vs. 113 [57.7%], p < 0.001). Conclusion: The study showed that VDOT enabled meaningful direct observation for TB patients through mobile devices, which was highly acceptable to patients and health care providers. It also saved time and is a cost-effective method, enabling the use of the saved money to other much-needed areas for TB.
Label Included: 0

Title: eHealth-supported case management for patients with panic disorder or depression in primary care: Study protocol for a cRCT (PREMA).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Panic disorder (PD), frequently occurring with agoraphobia (AG), and depression are common mental disorders in primary care and associated with considerable individual and societal costs. Early detection and effective treatment of depression and PD/AG are of major importance. Cognitive behavioural exposure exercises have been shown to be effective in reducing anxiety and depressive symptoms. Practice team-based case management can improve clinical outcomes for patients with chronic diseases in primary care. The present study aims at evaluating the effects and cost-effectiveness of a primary care team-based intervention using behavioural therapy elements and case management supported by eHealth components in patients with PD/AG or depression compared to treatment as usual.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a two-arm cluster-randomized, controlled trial (cRCT). General practices represent the units of randomisation. General practitioners recruit adult patients with depression and PD ± AG according to the International Classification of Diseases, version 10 (ICD-10). In the intervention group, patients receive cognitive behaviour therapy-oriented psychoeducation and instructions to self-managed exposure exercises in four manual-based appointments with the general practitioner. A trained health care assistant from the practice team delivers case management and is continuously monitoring symptoms and treatment progress in ten protocol-based telephone contacts with patients. Practice teams and patients are supported by eHealth components. In the control group, patients receive usual care from general practitioners. Outcomes are measured at baseline (T0), at follow-up after 6 months (T1), and at follow-up after 12 months (T2). The primary outcome is the mental health status of patients as measured by the Mental Health Index (MHI-5). Effect sizes of 0.2 standard deviation (SD) are regarded as relevant. Assuming a drop-out rate of 20% of practices and patients each, we aim at recruiting 1844 patients in 148 primary care practices. This corresponds to 12.5 patients on average per primary care practice. Secondary outcomes include depression and anxiety-related clinical parameters and health-economic costs.
DISCUSSION: If the intervention is more effective than treatment as usual, the three-component (cognitive behaviour therapy, case-management, eHealth) primary care-based intervention for patients suffering from PD/AG or depression could be a valuable low-threshold option that benefits patients and primary care practice teams.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German clinical trials register, DRKS00016622. Registered on February 22nd, 2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Revealing Novel IDEAS: A Fiduciary Framework for Team-Based Prescribing.
Abstract: The importance of safe, effective, and cost-effective prescribing habits can hardly be overstated in the current pay-for-value environment. The prescribing process taught in most medical curricula focuses primarily on accurate medical indications. While this may be of utmost importance from the clinician's perspective, it falls short of addressing the other key elements of highly effective prescribing. These other elements are often paramount in the minds of patients. A patient-centric framework that associates and incorporates the necessary components of optimal prescribing is overdue. Building this framework into medical curricula will foster increased teamwork among providers and enhance shared decision making between patients and clinicians. In addition to establishing accurate medical indications, prescribing teams need to assure every prescribed medication is desired, effective, affordable, and safe for patients who receive them. Prescription writing is an honorable prerogative, and doing so safely, effectively, and cost-effectively requires both teamwork and technology. Highly effective prescribing teams can implement the IDEAS (Indicated, Desired, Effective, Affordable, Safe) framework through appropriate and deliberate delegation. By empowering members of the care team to support and educate patients, this framework will allow physicians to focus on ensuring appropriate indications and real-world effectiveness. This novel IDEAS framework serves as an important mental model for medical trainees and reinforces sound prescribing habits among seasoned clinicians. High-touch and high-tech partnerships have the potential to maximize the triple aim (i.e., improving the patient's experience of care, improving the health of populations, and reducing the per capita cost of health care). In an era when costs overwhelm quality, providing a fiduciary framework to instill responsibility for optimal prescribing, especially among young physician-leaders, is invaluable.
Label Included: 0

Title: Perceptions of the two-phase pharmacy residency match process.
Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate residency applicant (RA) and residency program director (RPD) perceptions of Phase II of the Match process since its inception in 2016.
METHODS: An online survey was issued to all Match-registered RAs and RPDs for the 2016, 2017, and 2018 Match periods. Study participant demographics, participant designation (RA or RPD), the year(s) and Phase(s) of the Match participated in were measured using categorical ranges, and overall perceptions of the Match process since Phase II of the Match was implemented were captured with 5-point Likert scales.
RESULTS: A total of 2,599 individuals (RA and RPD) completed the survey for an overall survey response rate of 12.6%. The majority of RAs were female (73.2%), under the age of 30 (87.4%), Caucasian (67.4%), and recently graduated (90.9% graduated between 2016 and 2018). Most RAs participated in the 2018 Match period (61%), and overall 82% successfully matched to a residency position. RA perceptions relating to process cost-effectiveness and perceived fairness to all applicants differed significantly from RPD perceptions (2.23 versus 3.71 and 2.80 versus 3.67, respectively; p < 0.001 for each). There were no differences between RA and RPD perceptions related to the submission/review process.
CONCLUSION: The Phase II of the Match process has demonstrated improved organization and satisfaction from the RPD perspective compared to the previous process. RAs have identified several areas for improvement in the process. It is imperative that efforts are made to continue expanding program and position offerings as much as possible.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of Hyperbaric Oxygenation Versus Normobaric Oxygenation Therapy in Carbon Monoxide Poisoning: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Carbon monoxide (CO) is a gas product of combustion, considered highly poisonous. Prolonged CO exposure is responsible for more than half of fatal poisonings and is also one of the leading causes of poisoning in Western countries. We aimed to compare the effectiveness of therapy with hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) versus normobaric oxygen (NBO) in the setting of carbon monoxide poisoning (COP). We independently searched the National Library of Medicine's Medline (PubMed™), ScienceDirect™, and Scielo™ for any relevant studies published from 1989 to 2017, using the following keywords: hyperbaric therapy, hyperbaric oxygenation, normobaric therapy, carbon monoxide poisoning, carboxyhemoglobin, Haldane effect. We analyzed the studies that suggested the effectiveness of HBO or NBO. Also, we searched for studies related to COP; including history, epidemiology (risk factors, incidence, demographics), pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and treatment. Sixty-eight articles were found, sixteen of which dealt with either HBO or NBO or both. Twelve suggested HBO as the treatment of choice in COP; four studies indicated that NBO was an adequate treatment due to its cost-effectiveness and availability in the emergency department (ED). HBO has been shown in several studies to be effective in moderate to high-risk COP situations, being the therapy of choice to avoid sequelae, especially neurologically. NBO can be considered as a reasonable alternative due to its cost-effectiveness. The availability and understanding of different therapeutic interventions are critical in the management of patients with COP in ED and the Critical Care unit.
Label Included: 0

Title: The costs of home-based HIV testing and counselling in sub-Saharan Africa and its association with testing yield: a literature review.
Abstract: More than 14.5 of the 36.7 million people living with HIV globally do not know their HIV status, making comprehensive testing interventions a critical step in ending the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Home-based testing and counselling (HBTC) involves small teams of community health workers with basic training going from door-to-door and offering services in people's homes. HBTC is effective in reaching individuals that are unlikely to test otherwise, but there is conflicting evidence on its costs and little insight into why estimates are different. We undertook a comparative review of existing costing studies of HBTC in sub-Saharan Africa. Yield or positivity rate, the number of persons tested positive among all tested, is an important metric to judge the efficacy of a testing campaign. We conducted descriptive analyses to test whether unit costs are associated with yield. Studies varied in size with a maximum of 264 953 and a minimum of 494 persons tested. The average "cost per person tested" across 14 studies was $22.8 (SD $14.5) with a minimum of $6 and a maximum of $55.4, and the average "cost per person tested HIV-positive' across 12 studies was $439.4 (SD $399.7) with a minimum of $66.2 and a maximum of $800.9. Correlations between unit cost estimates and yield were not statistically significant. Existant estimates of the costs of HBTC are conflicting, and it is likely that differences in the setting, design and implementation of the studies are responsible for the discrepancies. This makes it difficult to reliably estimate the costs and cost-effectiveness of HBTC.
Label Included: 0

Title: Acceptability and uptake of an electronic decision-making tool to support the implementation of IMCI in primary healthcare facilities in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
Abstract: Background: Despite progress in reducing child mortality, preventable child deaths remain a challenge in South Africa. Poor implementation of Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) guidelines has been well described, and the reported barriers to implementation include a lack of user-friendly implementation tools. Aim: To investigate whether an electronic decision support tool to strengthen IMCI implementation is acceptable to nurses, clinic managers and caregivers at primary care facilities in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Methods: The electronic IMCI (eIMCI) software was tested in 15 health facilities in uMgungundlovu district from May to July 2018. System use was tracked and qualitative data obtained from three user groups. IMCI practitioners participated in questionnaires and focus groups, operational managers in in-depth interviews and caregivers in exit interviews. Results: Thirty-two IMCI practitioners, six operational managers and 30 caregivers were included. Acceptance was high among caregivers and operational managers, albeit less conclusive among IMCI practitioners whose eIMCI uptake indicated higher variability in acceptance than the qualitative reports. Despite suboptimal staff deployment after training and low baseline computer literacy levels, 3626 eIMCI records were captured across 12 sites over 14 weeks, with a median of 19 records per facility per week. Practitioners' indicators of self-efficacy improved significantly (p < 0.05) post-implementation compared to baseline. Seventy-six percent of caregivers reported a marked difference in experience compared to previous consultations, emphasising the comprehensiveness and efficiency of care. Conclusion: Uptake was promising and acceptance was good, with themes converging across participant groups to highlight improved comprehensiveness and efficiency of service. Limited computer literacy was the principal barrier to uptake. The next steps include incremental scale-up with stronger mentoring and supervision components and evaluations to assess the feasibility, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of eIMCI implementation. Abbreviations: CDSS: clinical decision support system; CHCs: community health centres; DoH: Department of Health; eIMCI: electronic IMCI; eHealth: electronic health; EHR: electronic health records; ICT: information and communication technology; IMCI: Integrated Management of Childhood Illness; OM: operational managers; PHCs: primary healthcare clinics; SA: South Africa; SSA: sub-Saharan Africa.
Label Included: 0

Title: A national eHealth vision developed by University Medical Centres: A concept mapping study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: EHealth solutions are envisaged to contribute significantly to a sustainable healthcare system. Between 2016 and 2018 the eight Dutch University Medical Centers (UMCs) received Dutch Government's funding to undertake research into the clinical impact, cost-effectiveness and ethical consideration of eHealth. The UMCs collaborated within the consortium 'Citrien fund (CF) program eHealth' and found that, in order to increase the value of eHealth in routine care, a national vision on eHealth developed by the UMCs was warranted.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper was to elucidate the process of the 'Netherlands Federation of UMCs (NFU) eHealth vision' development by describing the results of the performed concept mapping study.
METHODS: A concept mapping approach was followed. Sixteen members of the steering committee of the CF program eHealth were selected as participants. First, each member selected relevant objectives from the eight individual UMC eHealth vision documents, which was to be incorporated into the overall 'NFU eHealth vision'. Second, objectives were rated for necessary to be included in the vision document and the need to achieve the objective within five years. Thereafter, the objectives were sorted into self-created thematic clusters. And finally, the concept map with the thematic clusters and corresponding objectives was discussed with the steering committee to determine the major themes of the 'NFU eHealth vision'.
RESULTS: 38 objectives were determined by the steering committee and grouped into the following 6 thematic clusters on the concept map: 'patient participation and empowerment'; 'infrastructure'; 'education and research'; 'multi-disciplinary care'; 'organisational restructuring'; and 'essential conditions for development of eHealth solutions'. After discussing the concept mapping results with the steering committee, the following five major themes were determined to be addressed in the vision document: 'patient and caregiver'; 'research and innovation'; 'education'; 'organisation of care'; and 'essential conditions for development of eHealth solutions'.
CONCLUSION: Concept mapping was successfully applied to conceptualise the different values and opinions of the eight Dutch UMCs in order to develop a national vision on eHealth. This vision document will give direction to the development, evaluation and implementation of eHealth in the eight Dutch UMCs and their adherent healthcare providers.
Label Included: 0

Title: A randomised comparison of the effect of haemodynamic monitoring with CardioMEMS in addition to standard care on quality of life and hospitalisations in patients with chronic heart failure : Design and rationale of the MONITOR HF multicentre randomised clinical trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Assessing haemodynamic congestion based on filling pressures instead of clinical congestion can be a way to further improve quality of life (QoL) and clinical outcome by intervening before symptoms or weight gain occur in heart failure (HF) patients. The clinical efficacy of remote monitoring of pulmonary artery (PA) pressures (CardioMEMS; Abbott Inc., Atlanta, GA, USA) has been demonstrated in the USA. Currently, the PA sensor is not reimbursed in the European Union as its benefit when applied in addition to standard HF care is unknown in Western European countries, including the Netherlands.
AIMS: To demonstrate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of haemodynamic PA monitoring in addition to contemporary standard HF care in a high-quality Western European health care system.
METHODS: The current study is a prospective, multi-centre, randomised clinical trial in 340 patients with chronic HF (New York Heart Association functional class III) randomised to HF care including remote monitoring with the CardioMEMS PA sensor or standard HF care alone. Eligible patients have at least one hospitalisation for HF in 12 months before enrolment and will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio. Minimum follow-up will be 1 year. The primary endpoint is the change in QoL as measured by the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ). Secondary endpoints are the number of HF hospital admissions and changes in health status assessed by EQ-5D-5L questionnaire including health care utilisation and formal cost-effectiveness analysis.
CONCLUSION: The MONITOR HF trial will evaluate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of haemodynamic monitoring by CardioMEMS in addition to standard HF care in patients with chronic HF. Clinical Trial Registration number NTR7672.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development of an app for lung cancer survivors (iEXHALE) to increase exercise activity and improve symptoms of fatigue, breathlessness and depression.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Exercise-based self-management interventions are recommended for lung cancer survivors and can provide physical, psychosocial and emotional relief. Mobile health technologies can encourage self-management; however, currently, no cancer-related app addresses exercise-specific needs of lung cancer survivors. This paper details the design, development and testing of an exercise app for lung cancer survivors (iEXHALE), which aims to increase exercise activity and improve symptoms.
METHODS: The research had two stages: (1) focus groups with healthcare professionals, patients and family members (n=21) and (2) app development and usability study with lung cancer survivors (n=6). The Capability, Opportunity, Motivation-Behaviour model was used as a theoretical framework; data were thematically analysed.
RESULTS: Focus group findings identified many helpful exercises for managing lung cancer survivors' symptoms. These findings, alongside relevant literature, informed iEXHALE's content and design. The usability study found that lung cancer survivors valued iEXHALE's self-management capabilities but identified potential modifications including improved self-monitoring diaries and navigation.
CONCLUSIONS: iEXHALE's development has been theoretically and empirically informed, showing value as a self-management tool. Next, we will test its effectiveness, acceptability and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Framework for Predicting Impactability of Digital Care Management Using Machine Learning Methods.
Abstract: Digital care management programs can reduce health care costs and improve quality of care. However, it is unclear how to target patients who are most likely to benefit from these programs ex ante, a shortcoming of current "risk score"-based approaches across many interventions. This study explores a framework to define impactability by using machine learning (ML) models to identify those patients most likely to benefit from a digital health intervention for care management. Anonymized insurance claims data were used from a commercially insured population across several US states and combined with inferred sociodemographic data. The approach involves creating 2 models and the comparative analysis of the methodologies and performances therein. The authors first train a cost prediction model to calculate the differences in predicted (without intervention) versus actual (with onboarding onto digital health platform) health care expenditures for patients (N = 5600). This enables classification impactability if differences in predicted versus actual costs meet a predetermined threshold. Several random forest and logistic regression machine learning models were then trained to accurately categorize new patients as impactable versus not impactable. These parameters are modified through grid search to define the parameters that deliver optimal performance, reaching an overall sensitivity of 0.77 and specificity of 0.65 among all models. This approach shows that impactability for a digital health intervention can be successfully defined using ML methods, thus enabling efficient allocation of resources. This framework is generalizable to analyzing impactability of any intervention and can contribute to realizing closed-loop feedback systems for continuous improvement in health care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving Medication Information Presentation Through Interactive Visualization in Mobile Apps: Human Factors Design.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite the detailed patient package inserts (PPIs) with prescription drugs that communicate crucial information about safety, there is a critical gap between patient understanding and the knowledge presented. As a result, patients may suffer from adverse events. We propose using human factors design methodologies such as hierarchical task analysis (HTA) and interactive visualization to bridge this gap. We hypothesize that an innovative mobile app employing human factors design with an interactive visualization can deliver PPI information aligned with patients' information processing heuristics. Such an app may help patients gain an improved overall knowledge of medications.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to explore the feasibility of designing an interactive visualization-based mobile app using an HTA approach through a mobile prototype.
METHODS: Two pharmacists constructed the HTA for the drug risperidone. Later, the specific requirements of the design were translated using infographics. We transferred the wireframes of the prototype into an interactive user interface. Finally, a usability evaluation of the mobile health app was conducted.
RESULTS: A mobile app prototype using HTA and infographics was successfully created. We reiterated the design based on the specific recommendations from the usability evaluations.
CONCLUSIONS: Using HTA methodology, we successfully created a mobile prototype for delivering PPI on the drug risperidone to patients. The hierarchical goals and subgoals were translated into a mobile prototype.
Label Included: 0

Title: Is Banning Texturized Implants to Prevent Breast Implant-Associated Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma a Rational Decision? A Meta-Analysis and Cost-Effectiveness Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Breast implant-associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma (BIA-ALCL) is an emergent disease that threatens patients with texturized breast implants. Major concerns about the safety of these implants are leading to global changes to restrict the utilization of this product. The principal alternative is to perform breast augmentation utilizing smooth implants, given the lack of association with BIA-ALCL. The implications and costs of this intervention are unknown.
OBJECTIVES: The authors of this study determined the cost-effectiveness of smooth implants compared with texturized implants for breast augmentation surgery.
METHODS: A tree decision model was utilized to analyze the cost-effectiveness. Model input parameters were derived from published sources. The capsular contracture (CC) rate was calculated from a meta-analysis. Effectiveness measures were life years, avoided BIA-ALCL, avoided deaths, and avoided reoperations. A sensitivity analysis was performed to test the robustness of the model.
RESULTS: For avoided BIA-ALCL, the incremental cost was $18,562,003 for smooth implants over texturized implants. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was negative for life years, and avoided death and avoided reoperations were negative. The sensitivity analysis revealed that to avoid 1 case of BIA-ALCL, the utilization of smooth implants would be cost-effective for a risk of developing BIA-ALCL equal to or greater than 1:196, and there is a probability of CC with smooth implants equal to or less than 0.096.
CONCLUSIONS: The utilization of smooth implants to prevent BIA-ALCL is not cost-effective. Banning texturized implants to prevent BIA-ALCL may involve additional consequences, which should be considered in light of higher CC rates and more reoperations associated with smooth implants than with texturized implants.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of the utilization of telemedicine for patients with cardiovascular disease: a systematic review.
Abstract: Cardiovascular disease is one of the major causes of mortality in the world, with high human and financial burdens on communities. Telemedicine is a tool for providing services for patients that are difficult to access or in need of immediate care. The aim of this study was to systematically review economic evaluation studies that compared telemedicine with usual care for cardiovascular patients. A systematic review was conducted according to Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines and related articles published up to December 2018 were searched in different databases (PubMed, Embase, SCOPUS, Global Health, Google Scholar, Magiran, SID). The articles were selected based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. Consolidated health economic evaluation reporting standards statement checklist was used to qualitatively evaluate the papers. Overall, 20 articles were included in the study. The studies used quality-adjusted life years to measure outcomes. The highest and lowest values of Incremental Cost-effectiveness Ratio were $515,082 and $2099 that had been reported in the UK and New Zealand, respectively. Most of the items of the checklist were reported and the quality of most of the studies was excellent and very good. According to the results, telemedicine improves the clinical outcomes and results in considerable saving in costs. Utilizing telemedicine concurrent with the usual care for service delivery is more cost-effective. The reviewed studies had been conducted in high-income countries, hence, it is essential to be cautious when generalizing the results and applying them in health systems policymaking.
Label Included: 0

Title: Provider- and Patient-Related Barriers to and Facilitators of Digital Health Technology Adoption for Hypertension Management: Scoping Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The uptake of digital health technology (DHT) has been surprisingly low in clinical practice. Despite showing great promise to improve patient outcomes and disease management, there is limited information on the factors that contribute to the limited adoption of DHT, particularly for hypertension management.
OBJECTIVE: This scoping review provides a comprehensive summary of barriers to and facilitators of DHT adoption for hypertension management reported in the published literature with a focus on provider- and patient-related barriers and facilitators.
METHODS: This review followed the methodological framework developed by Arskey and O'Malley. Systematic literature searches were conducted on PubMed or Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System Online, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and Excerpta Medica database. Articles that reported on barriers to and/or facilitators of digital health adoption for hypertension management published in English between 2008 and 2017 were eligible. Studies not reporting on barriers or facilitators to DHT adoption for management of hypertension were excluded. A total of 2299 articles were identified based on the above criteria after removing duplicates, and they were assessed for eligibility. Of these, 2165 references did not meet the inclusion criteria. After assessing 134 studies in full text, 98 studies were excluded (full texts were either unavailable or studies did not fulfill the inclusion criteria), resulting in a final set of 32 articles. In addition, 4 handpicked articles were also included in the review, making it a total of 36 studies.
RESULTS: A total of 36 studies were selected for data extraction after abstract and full-text screening by 2 independent reviewers. All conflicts were resolved by a third reviewer. Thematic analysis was conducted to identify major themes pertaining to barriers and facilitators of DHT from both provider and patient perspectives. The key facilitators of DHT adoption by physicians that were identified include ease of integration with clinical workflow, improvement in patient outcomes, and technology usability and technical support. Technology usability and timely technical support improved self-management and patient experience, and positive impact on patient-provider communication were most frequently reported facilitators for patients. Barriers to use of DHTs reported by physicians include lack of integration with clinical workflow, lack of validation of technology, and lack of technology usability and technical support. Finally, lack of technology usability and technical support, interference with patient-provider relationship, and lack of validation of technology were the most commonly reported barriers by patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest the settings and context in which DHTs are implemented and individuals involved in implementation influence adoption. Finally, to fully realize the potential of digitally enabled hypertension management, there is a greater need to validate these technologies to provide patients and providers with reliable and accurate information on both clinical outcomes and cost effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: The DREAM Initiative: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial testing an integrated electronic health record and community health worker intervention to promote weight loss among South Asian patients at risk for diabetes.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Electronic health record (EHR)-based interventions that use registries and alerts can improve chronic disease care in primary care settings. Community health worker (CHW) interventions also have been shown to improve chronic disease outcomes, especially in minority communities. Despite their potential, these two approaches have not been tested together, including in small primary care practice (PCP) settings. This paper presents the protocol of Diabetes Research, Education, and Action for Minorities (DREAM) Initiative, a 5-year randomized controlled trial integrating both EHR and CHW approaches into a network of PCPs in New York City (NYC) in order to support weight loss efforts among South Asian patients at risk for diabetes.
METHODS/DESIGN: The DREAM Initiative was funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (National Institutes of Health). A total of 480 individuals at risk for type 2 diabetes will be enrolled into the intervention group, and an equal number will be included in a matched control group. The EHR intervention components include the provision of technical assistance to participating PCPs regarding prediabetes-related registry reports, alerts, and order sets. The CHW intervention components entail group education sessions on diabetes prevention, including weight loss and nutrition. A mixed-methods approach will be used to evaluate the feasibility, adoption, and impact (≥ 5% weight loss) of the integrated study components. Additionally, a cost effectiveness analysis will be conducted using outcomes, implementation costs, and healthcare claims data to determine the incremental cost per person achieving 5% weight loss.
DISCUSSION: This study will be the first to test the efficacy of an integrated EHR-CHW intervention within an underserved, minority population and in a practical setting via a network of small PCPs in NYC. The study's implementation is enhanced through cross-sector partnerships, including the local health department, a healthcare payer, and EHR vendors. Through use of a software platform, the study will also systematically track and monitor CHW referrals to social service organizations. Study findings, including those resulting from cost-effectiveness analyses, will have important implications for translating similar strategies to other minority communities in sustainable ways.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study protocol has been approved and is made available on ClinicalTrials.gov by NCT03188094 as of 15 June 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementation and validation of real-time algorithms for atrial fibrillation detection on a wearable ECG device.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Due to the growing epidemic of atrial fibrillation (AF), new strategies for AF screening, diagnosis, and monitoring are required. Wearable devices with on-board AF detection algorithms may improve early diagnosis and therapy outcomes. In this work, we implemented optimized algorithms for AF detection on a wearable ECG monitoring device and assessed their performance.
METHODS: The signal processing framework was composed of two main modules: 1) a QRS detector based on a finite state machine, and 2) an AF detector based on the Shannon entropy of the symbolic word series obtained from the instantaneous heart rate. The AF detector was optimized off-line by tuning its parameters to reduce the computational burden while preserving detection accuracy. On-board performance was assessed in terms of detection accuracy, memory usage, and computation time.
RESULTS: The on-board implementation of the QRS detector produced an overall accuracy of 99% on the MIT-BIH Arrhythmia Database, with memory usage = 672 bytes, and computation time ≤90 μs. The on-board implementation of the optimized AF algorithm gave an overall accuracy of 98.1% (versus 98.3% of the original version) on the MIT-BIH AF Database, with increased sensitivity (99.2% versus 98.5%) and decreased specificity (97.3% versus 98.2%), memory usage = 4648 bytes, and computation time ≤ 75 μs (consistent with real-time detection).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the feasibility of real-time AF detection on a wearable ECG device. It constitutes a promising step towards the development of novel ECG monitoring systems to tackle the growing AF epidemic.
Label Included: 0

Title: Does telephone-delivered exercise advice and support by physiotherapists improve pain and/or function in people with knee osteoarthritis? Telecare randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Evaluate a physiotherapist-led telephone-delivered exercise advice and support intervention for people with knee osteoarthritis.
METHODS: Participant-blinded, assessor-blinded randomised controlled trial. 175 people were randomly allocated to (1) existing telephone service (≥1 nurse consultation for self-management advice) or (2) exercise advice and support (5-10 consultations with a physiotherapist trained in behaviour change for a personalised strengthening and physical activity programme) plus the existing service. Primary outcomes were overall knee pain (Numerical Rating Scale, range 0-10) and physical function (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index, range 0-68) at 6 months. Secondary outcomes, cost-effectiveness and 12-month follow-up were included.
RESULTS: 165 (94%) and 158 (90%) participants were retained at 6 and 12 months, respectively. At 6 months, exercise advice and support resulted in greater improvement in function (mean difference 4.7 (95% CI 1.0 to 8.4)), but not overall pain (0.7, 0.0 to 1.4). Eight of 14 secondary outcomes favoured exercise advice and support at 6 months, including pain on daily activities, walking pain, pain self-efficacy, global improvements across multiple domains (overall improvement, improved pain, improved function and improved physical activity) and satisfaction. By 12 months, most outcomes were similar between groups. Exercise advice and support cost $A514/participant and did not save other health service resources.
CONCLUSION: Telephone-delivered physiotherapist-led exercise advice and support modestly improved physical function but not the co-primary outcome of knee pain at 6 months. Functional benefits were not sustained at 12 months. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (#12616000054415).
Label Included: 0

Title: A Validation Study of the Remotely Administered Montreal Cognitive Assessment Tool in the Elderly Japanese Population.
Abstract: Background: In an aging society, neuropsychological testing using video teleconferencing (VTC) is increasingly important. Despite the potential benefit of a VTC-administered Montreal Cognitive Assessment Tool (MoCA) to detect cognitive decline, only a limited number of studies have investigated this tool's reliability. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the reliability of VTC-administered MoCA compared with face-to-face (FTF)-administered MoCA among elderly Japanese participants. Moreover, we examined participants' satisfaction with VTC-administered MoCA. Methods: Participants ≥60 years of age with and without cognitive impairment (i.e., those with mild cognitive impairment [MCI], those with dementia, and healthy controls [HC]) were assessed with VTC- and FTF-administered MoCA at an interval of >2 weeks and <3 months. The order effect (VTC first vs. FTF first) and time effect (first vs. second testing session), as well as several covariates such as age and years of education were controlled. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were calculated using a mixed-effects model to assess the agreement between the two (VTC- vs. FTF-administered) groups. Participants' satisfaction with VTC-administered MoCA was examined using a Likert scale asking seven questions. Results: We included 73 participants in the study (36 men; age, 76.3 ± 7.5 years). The ICC for the MoCA total score was high in the entire sample (0.85), whereas ICCs were moderate to high for the subgroups (MCI: 0.82, dementia: 0.82, and HC: 0.53). Furthermore, we found good overall participant satisfaction with VTC-administered MoCA. Discussion: VTC-administered MoCA appears viable as an alternative to FTF-administered MoCA, although further replication studies with larger sample sizes are needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote monitoring of chronic heart failure patients: invasive versus non-invasive tools for optimising patient management.
Abstract: Exacerbations of chronic heart failure (HF) with the necessity for hospitalisation impact hospital resources significantly. Despite all of the achievements in medical management and non-pharmacological therapy that improve the outcome in HF, new strategies are needed to prevent HF-related hospitalisations by keeping stable HF patients out of the hospital and focusing resources on unstable HF patients. Remote monitoring of these patients could provide the physicians with an additional tool to intervene adequately and promptly. Results of telemonitoring to date are inconsistent, especially those of telemonitoring with traditional non-haemodynamic parameters. Recently, the CardioMEMS device (Abbott Inc., Atlanta, GA, USA), an implantable haemodynamic remote monitoring sensor, has shown promising results in preventing HF-related hospitalisations in chronic HF patients hospitalised in the previous year and in New York Heart Association functional class III in the United States. This review provides an overview of the available evidence on remote monitoring in chronic HF patients and future perspectives for the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of these strategies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Same-Day Anterior Cervical Discectomy and Fusion-Our Protocol and Experience: Same-Day Discharge After Anterior Cervical Discectomy and Fusion in Suitable Patients has Similarly Low Readmission Rates as Admitted Patients.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Outpatient anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) is performed frequently, with studies demonstrating similar complication and readmission rates compared to traditional admission. Advantages include cost effectiveness, as well as lower risk of nosocomial infections and medical errors, which lead to quicker recovery and higher patient satisfaction. Protocols are needed to ensure that outpatient ACDF occurs safely. The objective of this study was to develop and implement a protocol with patient selection and discharge criteria for patients undergoing same-day discharge (SDD) ACDF and assess readmission rates.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed to identify patients undergoing 1 or 2 level primary ACDF between March 2016 and March 2017 who were eligible for SDD according to the institutional protocol (Figure 1, Table 2). Patients with identical surgery and discharge dates were grouped as SDD, and admitted patients were grouped as same-day admission (SDA). Using our electronic health record's analytics, readmissions in the 90-day postoperative period were identified.
RESULTS: Of the 434 patients identified, 126 patients were SDD, and 308 were SDA. Baseline characteristics such as age, operative time, and time in the recovery room were significantly different between the 2 groups (Table 2). The average length of stay of admitted patients was 1.48 days, with 77% discharged on postoperative day 1. There was an overall, noninferior readmission rate of 0.8% in the SDD group compared to 0.6% in the SDA group (P = .86).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study support the feasibility of outpatient ACDF and add a patient selection and discharge criteria to the literature. Proper identification of suitable patients using our protocol results in a noninferior readmission rate, allowing surgeons to continue to safely perform these surgeries with a low readmission rate.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 3.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: SDD is safe in the appropriate patient population.
Label Included: 0

Title: Quality and cost-effectiveness analyses of home-visit nursing based on the frequency of nursing care visits and patients' quality of life: A pilot study.
Abstract: AIM: This pilot study aimed to analyze the cost-effectiveness of visiting nursing care, to establish a new evaluation method considering both the quality and cost of visiting nursing care.
METHOD: Participants were 384 caregivers from 10 certified home-visit nursing agencies that support patients in severe conditions in Japan. They completed a survey assessing the number of nursing care visits carried out in November 2016, visiting nursing receipt data for 1 month of study and quality of life (QOL), as measured by the EuroQol-5 Dimension at their last visit, which took place 1 month later.
RESULTS: We categorized participants into low-charge and high-charge groups. In the low-charge group, no relationship was found between high QOL and frequency of implementation of each type of care. In the high-charge group, participants with high frequencies of "medicine management and instruction," "description and guidance for diseases and treatment," and "nutrition and diet care" had higher levels of QOL.
CONCLUSIONS: This research might contribute to establishing a cost assessment system for home-visit nursing care in Japan, which is expected to be useful in countries where the average age of the population is increasing. Care provided by visiting nurses might be divided into care items that related or did not relate to QOL. Therefore, when evaluating the quality and cost-effectiveness of visiting nursing care, it is necessary to construct an evaluation system that considers these aspects and obtain appropriate data. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2020; 20: 36-41.
Label Included: 0

Title: Progressive Resistance Plus Balance Training for Older Australians Receiving In-Home Care Services: Cost-Effectiveness Analyses Alongside the Muscling Up Against Disability Stepped-Wedge Randomized Control Trial.
Abstract: In this article, the authors assessed the cost-effectiveness of center-based exercise training for older Australians. The participants were recipients of in-home care services, and they completed 24 weeks of progressive resistance plus balance training. Transport was offered to all participants. A stepped-wedge randomized control trial produced pre-, post-, and follow-up outcomes and cost data, which were used to calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios per quality-adjusted life year gained. Analyses were conducted from a health provider perspective and from a government perspective. From a health-service provider perspective, the direct cost of program provision was $303 per person, with transport adding an additional $1,920 per person. The incremental cost-utility ratio of the program relative to usual care was $70,540 per quality-adjusted life year over 6 months, decreasing to $37,816 per quality-adjusted life year over 12 months. The findings suggest that Muscling Up Against Disability offers good value for the money within commonly accepted threshold values.
Label Included: 0

Title: The 2019 TOPRA (Organization for Professionals in Regulatory Affairs) Annual Symposium (September 30-October 2, 2019 - Dublin, Ireland).
Abstract: The Organization for Professionals in Regulatory Affairs (TOPRA) hosted its 2019 Annual Symposium in Dublin and gathered together professionals from regulatory agencies, pharmaceutical companies and associations worldwide. The key topics discussed were related to digital health, Brexit, expedited/facilitated regulatory pathways, European Medicines Agency (EMA) public hearings, medi-cal devices and health technology assessment (HTA).
Label Included: 0

Title: Protocol for an effectiveness- implementation hybrid trial to assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an m-health intervention to decrease the consumption of discretionary foods packed in school lunchboxes: the 'SWAP IT' trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: At a population level, small reductions in energy intake have the potential to contribute to a reduction in the prevalence of childhood obesity. In many school systems, there is the potential to achieve a reduction in energy intake through modest improvements in foods packed in children's school lunchboxes. This study will assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a multi-component intervention that uses an existing school-based communication application to reduce the kilojoule content from discretionary foods and drinks consumed by children from school lunchboxes whilst at school.
METHODS: A Type I hybrid effectiveness-implementation cluster randomised controlled trial will be conducted in up to 36 primary schools in the Hunter New England, Central Coast and Mid North Coast regions of New South Wales, Australia. Designed using the Behaviour Change Wheel, schools will be randomly allocated to receive either a 5-month (1.5 school terms) multi-component intervention that includes: 1) school lunchbox nutrition guidelines; 2) curriculum lessons; 3) information pushed to parents via an existing school-based communication application and 4) additional parent resources to address common barriers to packing healthy lunchboxes or a control arm (standard school practices). The study will assess both child level dietary outcomes and school-level implementation outcomes. The primary trial outcome, mean energy (kJ) content of discretionary lunchbox foods packed in children's lunchboxes, will be assessed at baseline and immediately post intervention (5 months or 1.5 school terms). Analyses will be performed using intention to treat principles, assessing differences between groups via hierarchical linear regression models.
DISCUSSION: This study will be the first fully powered randomised controlled trial internationally to examine the impact of an m-health intervention to reduce the mean energy from discretionary food and drinks packed in the school lunchbox. The intervention has been designed with scalability in mind and will address an important evidence gap which, if shown to be effective, has the potential to be applied at a population level.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN:12618001731280 registered on 17/10/2018. Protocol Version 1.
Label Included: 0

Title: Live interactive teledermatology compared to in-person care - a systematic review.
Abstract: Teledermatology is a rapidly developing field of dermatological care, giving the opportunity to deliver more efficient healthcare to patients in remote areas. Live interactive (LI) teledermatology uses videoconferencing and, hence, allows for direct communication. A current overview on effectiveness, costs, feasibility and accuracy of LI applications compared to standard care is missing. The present systematic review provides this overview on LI teledermatology. Two databases were searched until April 2019, followed by title, abstract and full-text screening. Additionally, reference lists of the detected eligible articles were screened for further eligible studies. Studies comparing LI applications with standard care were included. Data on study design, sample size, country, objectives, main findings and characteristics of LI applications were extracted. Results on time effectiveness, costs, accuracy and feasibility of LI applications were synthesized. Additionally, the quality of included studies was assessed. Twenty-three publications were included in the final analysis: seventeen case-control studies and six randomized controlled trials. Included studies were published between 1997 and 2017. Study quality differed across studies. The studies were carried out in eight different countries. Eleven studies focused on patient consultation, three on patient organization and nine on combined applications of the aforementioned. Nine studies investigated applications facilitating patient-provider interaction. Fourteen studies evaluated applications combining patient-provider and provider-provider interaction, meaning the patient sits next to one provider while using LI applications to interact with another provider. This review reveals that LI applications can be a time effective substitute of or supplement to standard dermatological care. Results demonstrated that LI and standard care are comparable with regard to feasibility and accuracy. No clear tendencies can be reported with regard to costs. However, there is a lack of current comparative studies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tele-retina screening of diabetic retinopathy among at-risk populations: an economic analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the pilot Toronto tele-retina screening program in comparison with existing standard of care (SOC) diabetic retinopathy (DR) screening for patients with diabetes mellitus and in a simulated Pan-Ontarian cohort.
METHODS: Decision trees were constructed to compare tele-retina to SOC in the pilot and Pan-Ontarian cohort. Cost-effectiveness was assessed as cost per case detected (true-positive) and cost per case correctly diagnosed (true-positive and true-negative results).
RESULTS: Pilot program screening costs were $95.77 and $137.56 for tele-retina and SOC, respectively. In the base-case analysis, cost per case correctly detected was $379.06 with tele-retina and $985.56 with SOC, and the cost per case correctly diagnosed was $109.29 and $315.22, respectively. In the sensitivity analysis, cost per case correctly detected was $467.29 with tele-retina and $894.93 with SOC, and the cost per case correctly diagnosed was $136.88 and $250.35, respectively. Pan-Ontarian screening costs were $57.58 and $137.56 for tele-retina and SOC, respectively. The cost per case correctly detected was $281.10 with tele-retina and $982.00 with SOC, and the cost per case correctly diagnosed was $82.21 and $314.14, respectively. For both pilot and Pan-Ontarian sensitivity analyses, tele-retina remained the dominant strategy (ICER <0).
CONCLUSIONS: Findings from this study suggest that tele-retina is a more cost-effective means of screening for diabetic retinopathy than the SOC in urban and rural underscreened communities. Subsequent economic studies should focus on evaluations that consider the impact of tele-retina on the prevention of severe vision loss in underscreened urban and rural communities.
Label Included: 0

Title: ECG AI-Guided Screening for Low Ejection Fraction (EAGLE): Rationale and design of a pragmatic cluster randomized trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A deep learning algorithm to detect low ejection fraction (EF) using routine 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) has recently been developed and validated. The algorithm was incorporated into the electronic health record (EHR) to automatically screen for low EF, encouraging clinicians to obtain a confirmatory transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) for previously undiagnosed patients, thereby facilitating early diagnosis and treatment.
OBJECTIVES: To prospectively evaluate a novel artificial intelligence (AI) screening tool for detecting low EF in primary care practices.
DESIGN: The EAGLE trial is a pragmatic two-arm cluster randomized trial (NCT04000087) that will randomize >100 clinical teams (i.e., clusters) to either intervention (access to the new AI screening tool) or control (usual care) at 48 primary care practices across Minnesota and Wisconsin. The trial is expected to involve approximately 400 clinicians and 20,000 patients. The primary endpoint is newly discovered EF ≤50%. Eligible patients will include adults who undergo ECG for any reason and have not been previously diagnosed with low EF. Data will be pulled from the EHR, and no contact will be made with patients. A positive deviance qualitative study and a post-implementation survey will be conducted among select clinicians to identify facilitators and barriers to using the new screening report.
SUMMARY: This trial will examine the effectiveness of the AI-enabled ECG for detection of asymptomatic low EF in routine primary care practices and will be among the first to prospectively evaluate the value of AI in real-world practice. Its findings will inform future implementation strategies for the translation of other AI-enabled algorithms.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of a mobile health intervention on infant and young child feeding among children ≤ 24 months of age in rural Islamabad over six months duration.
Abstract: Background: Childhood development is highly influenced by feeding practices at infancy and young age of the children. Unfortunately, according to the National Nutrition Survey (2011), the prevalence of exclusive breastfeeding in Pakistan was 21% at four months, and 13% at six months of age with 51.3% of mothers initiating semisolid foods to their children at the recommended 6-8 months of age. Pakistan Demographic & Health Survey (PDHS 2018) however; indicates that only 48% of infants are exclusively breastfed which has been improved from 38% as reported in the past five years but still more improvement is envisaged. Methods: A quasi-experimental study design was employed for this post-intervention survey assessing effectiveness of mobile health (mhealth) regarding infant & young child feeding (IYCF) among pregnant and lactating mothers in Tarlai, Islamabad from May to June 2018. A total of 135 mothers who were earlier included in the intervention phase were recruited after obtaining verbal & written consent. The data was entered in EpiData (3.1) and analyzed in SPSS version 21. Results: The mean age of these pregnant and lactating mothers was 30.5 years ± 4.5 SD with the majority of mothers in the age group of 25 to 29 years. After intervention, the overall knowledge of mothers regarding IYCF nutrition was raised among 94 mothers (69.6%) as compared to 74 (54.8%) mothers prior to the intervention. Overall attitude regarding IYCF was found to be positive among 86 (63.7%) of the mothers, whereas 88 (65.2%) of the mothers had good IYCF related practices. Conclusion: Our post-intervention survey signifies the effectiveness of mhealth in raising knowledge, attitude, and practices of mothers regarding IYCF in rural Islamabad. However, implementation of mhealth in masses requires future research specifically to address cost-effectiveness of such interventions in maternal & child health programmes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Dementia Care Mapping in Care-Home Settings: Evaluation of a Randomised Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Behaviours such as agitation impact on the quality of life of care-home residents with dementia and increase healthcare use. Interventions to prevent these behaviours have little evidence supporting their effectiveness or cost-effectiveness. We conducted an economic evaluation alongside a trial assessing Dementia Care Mapping™ (DCM) versus usual care for reducing agitation, and highlight methodological challenges of conducting evaluations in this population and setting.
METHODS: RCT data over 16 months from English care-home residents with dementia (intervention n = 418; control n = 308) were analysed. We conducted a cost-utility analysis from the healthcare provider perspective. We gathered resource use and utility (EQ-5D-5L and DEMQoL-Proxy-U) from people living with dementia and proxy informants (staff and relatives). Data were analysed using seemingly unrelated regression, accounting for care-home clustering and bootstrapping used to capture sampling uncertainty.
RESULTS: Costs were higher in the intervention arm than in the control arm (incremental = £1479) due in part to high cost outliers. There were small QALY gains (incremental = 0.024) in favour of DCM. The base-case ICER (£64,380 per QALY) suggests DCM is not cost-effective versus usual care. With the exception of analyses excluding high cost outliers, which suggested a potential for DCM to be cost-effective, sensitivity analyses corroborated the base-case findings. Bootstrapped estimates suggested DCM had a low probability (< 0.20 where λ = £20,000) of being cost-effective versus control.
CONCLUSION: DCM does not appear to be a cost-effective intervention versus usual care in this group and setting. The evaluation highlighted several methodological challenges relating to validity of utility assessments, loss to follow-up and compliance. Further research is needed on handling high-cost individuals and capturing utility in this group. ISRCTN reference 82288852.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Development and Application of Cost Management Program for Visiting Nursing Centers Using Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing].
Abstract: PURPOSE: This study aimed to develop a web-based cost management program for visiting nursing centers (CMP-VNC), using time-driven activity-based costing (TD-ABC), and to analyze effects of the program.
METHODS: The CMP-VNC was developed using the combined prototyping approach and system developing life cycle method following four stages: need analysis with comprehensive literature reviews and focus group interviews, design and development of program algorithm, evaluation of the developed program validity using experts and users group, and application and effects analysis. The non-equivalent control group pretest-posttest design was used to analyze the effects of the program. The program demonstration was conducted for four weeks with 60 visiting nurses in 35 visiting centers.
RESULTS: The web-based program was developed. It has five interfaces with basic and special functions using TD-ABC, namely, input, visiting nursing activity, visiting nursing activity cost, cost efficiency, and cost calculation report. The experimental group showed significantly higher cost perception and cost confidence than control group.
CONCLUSION: We found that the CMP-VNC can be an effective tool to increase visiting nurses' competency of costing and enhance efficiencies of visiting nursing centers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical and economic outcomes of ProGlide compared with surgical repair of large bore arterial access.
Abstract: Aim: This study compared real-world complication rates, hospitalization duration and costs, among patients undergoing arterial repair using the Perclose ProGlide (ProGlide) versus surgical cutdown (Cutdown). Materials & methods: Retrospective study of matched patients who underwent transcatheter aortic valve replacement/repair, endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, thoracic endovascular aortic repair or balloon aortic valvuloplasty with arterial repair by either ProGlide or Cutdown between 1 January 2013 and 24 April 2017. Results: Infections and blood transfusions were lower in the ProGlide cohort. Patients in the ProGlide cohort had a 42.5% shorter index hospitalization, which corresponded to US$14,687 lower costs. Conclusion: The use of ProGlide for arterial repair was associated with significantly lower transfusion rates, shorter index hospitalization and lower hospitalization costs compared with surgical cutdown.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Determinants of M-Health Adoption in Developing Countries: An Empirical Investigation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The potential benefit of mobile health (M-Health) in developing countries for improving the efficiency of health care service delivery, health care quality, and patient safety, as well as reducing cost, has been increasingly recognized and emphasized in the last few years.
OBJECTIVE: Limited research has investigated the facilitators and barriers for the adoption of M-Health in developing countries to secure successful implementation of the technology. To fill this knowledge gap, we propose an integrative model that explains the patient's adoption behavior of M-Health in developing countries grounded on the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology, dual-factor model, and health belief model.
METHOD: We empirically tested and evaluated the model based on data collected using a survey method from 280 patients living in a developing country. Partial least squares (PLS-SEM) technique was used for data analysis.
RESULTS: The results showed that performance expectancy, effort expectancy, social influence, perceived health threat, M-Health app quality, and life quality expectancy have a direct positive effect on patients' intention to use M-Health. The results also showed that security and privacy risks have a direct negative effect on the patient's intention to use M-Health. However, resistance to change was found to have an indirect negative effect on patients' intention to use M-Health through the performance expectancy.
CONCLUSION: The research contributes to the existing literature of health information systems and M-Health by better understanding how technological, social, and functional factors are associated with digital health applications and services use and success in the context of developing countries. With the widespread availability of mobile technologies and services and the growing demand for M-Health apps, this research can help guide the development of the next generation of M-Health apps with a focus on the needs of patients in developing countries. The research has several theoretical and practical implications for the health care industry, government, policy makers, and technology developers and designers.
Label Included: 0

Title: SERIES: eHealth in primary care. Part 2: Exploring the ethical implications of its application in primary care practice.
Abstract: Background: eHealth promises to increase self-management and personalised medicine and improve cost-effectiveness in primary care. Paired with these promises are ethical implications, as eHealth will affect patients' and primary care professionals' (PCPs) experiences, values, norms, and relationships.Objectives: We argue what ethical implications related to the impact of eHealth on four vital aspects of primary care could (and should) be anticipated.Discussion: (1) EHealth influences dealing with predictive and diagnostic uncertainty. Machine-learning based clinical decision support systems offer (seemingly) objective, quantified, and personalised outcomes. However, they also introduce new loci of uncertainty and subjectivity. The decision-making process becomes opaque, and algorithms can be invalid, biased, or even discriminatory. This has implications for professional responsibilities and judgments, justice, autonomy, and trust. (2) EHealth affects the roles and responsibilities of patients because it can stimulate self-management and autonomy. However, autonomy can also be compromised, e.g. in cases of persuasive technologies and eHealth can increase existing health disparities. (3) The delegation of tasks to a network of technologies and stakeholders requires attention for responsibility gaps and new responsibilities. (4) The triangulate relationship: patient-eHealth-PCP requires a reconsideration of the role of human interaction and 'humanness' in primary care as well as of shaping Shared Decision Making.Conclusion: Our analysis is an essential first step towards setting up a dedicated ethics research agenda that should be examined in parallel to the development and implementation of eHealth. The ultimate goal is to inspire the development of practice-specific ethical recommendations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Treating mental health crises at home: Patient satisfaction with home nursing care.
Abstract: WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Most studies have focused on whether hospital admissions have been reduced by the introduction of crisis services, rather than focusing on how these services are employed. Research has also shown that home assistance decreases costs and increases the level of patient satisfaction, thereby being more efficient in terms of the cost/effectiveness ratio than is traditional hospital care. Patient satisfaction with nursing care has long been identified as a key element of quality of care; however, satisfaction with nursing care among patients and families receiving crisis resolution at home has not been studied yet. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: There is limited research on patient satisfaction with CRHTTs. This study provides new insights and data including that on relationships between patient satisfaction and the teams' attention to person-centred mental health care. The difference between this study and other studies on patient satisfaction with crisis resolution home treatment teams is that this study focused on patients' and families' satisfaction with the nursing care provided by crisis resolution home treatment teams rather than with the general service provided. This study is the first of its kind with such a focus. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This research has both academic and clinical implications. Patients' and their families' satisfaction with nursing care is an integral aspect for evaluating mental health services, and this is especially important regarding services provided by crisis resolution home treatment teams because such teams are currently being introduced in countries such as Spain. Closely examining patients and families' satisfaction with nursing care can also foster improvements in current practices. Nurses in crisis teams might need to focus on equalizing power relations, which the data gathered in this study suggests is most important to patient satisfaction. ABSTRACT: Introduction Crisis resolution home treatment teams (CRHTT) provide short-term, intensive home treatment to people experiencing mental health crises. Patient satisfaction has long been identified as a key element of quality of care; however, satisfaction with nursing care as part of this service has not been studied yet. Aim To assess patients' and their families' satisfaction with the nursing care provided through a home care program offered by a hospital in Catalonia which administers person-centred care. Method A mixed methods research design was conducted. A cross-sectional study including quantitative survey data and qualitative interview data with a phenomenological focus was conducted. Results Twenty interviews were conducted. Patients and relatives reported high satisfaction that seems to be related to the person-centred nature of the care. Discussion The findings provide new insights, including how home treatment tends to equalize power relations between nurses and patients/the patient's family members, and how nurses increase sensitivity when focusing on service users' needs and priorities, leading to high patient and family satisfaction. Implications for practice This research has both academic and clinical implications. It highlights what mental health patients and their families value most about home care and interactions with nurses, and also drives improvements in current practices.
Label Included: 0

Title: HOspital care versus TELemonitoring in high-risk pregnancy (HOTEL): study protocol for a multicentre non-inferiority randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Pregnant women faced with complications of pregnancy often require long-term hospital admission for maternal and/or fetal monitoring. Antenatal admissions cause a burden to patients as well as hospital resources and costs. A telemonitoring platform connected to wireless cardiotocography (CTG) and automated blood pressure (BP) devices can be used for telemonitoring in pregnancy. Home telemonitoring might improve autonomy and reduce admissions and thus costs. The aim of this study is to compare the effects on patient safety, satisfaction and cost-effectiveness of hospital care versus telemonitoring (HOTEL) as an obstetric care strategy in high-risk pregnancies requiring daily monitoring.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The HOTEL trial is an ongoing multicentre randomised controlled clinical trial with a non-inferiority design. Eligible pregnant women are >26+0 weeks of singleton gestation requiring monitoring because of pre-eclampsia (hypertension with proteinuria), fetal growth restriction, preterm rupture of membranes without contractions, recurrent reduced fetal movements or an intrauterine fetal death in a previous pregnancy.Randomisation takes place between traditional hospitalisation (planned n=208) versus telemonitoring (planned n=208) until delivery. Telemonitoring at home is facilitated with Sense4Baby CTG devices, Microlife BP monitor and daily telephone calls with an obstetric healthcare professional as well as weekly hospital visits.Primary outcome is a composite of adverse perinatal outcome, defined as perinatal mortality, 5 min Apgar <7 or arterial cord blood pH <7.05, maternal morbidity (eclampsia, HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets) syndrome, thromboembolic event), neonatal intensive care admission and caesarean section rate. Patient satisfaction and preference of care will be assessed using validated questionnaires. We will perform an economic analysis. Outcomes will be analysed according to the intention to treat principle.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Utrecht University Medical Center and the boards of all six participating centres. Trial results will be submitted to peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NTR6076.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hearing care across the life course provided in the community.
Abstract: Untreated hearing loss is recognized as a growing global health priority because of its prevalence and harmful effects on health and well-being. Until recently, little progress had been made in expanding hearing care beyond traditional clinic-based models to incorporate public health approaches that increase accessibility to and affordability of hearing care. As demonstrated in numerous countries and for many health conditions, sharing health-care tasks with community health workers (CHWs) offers advantages as a complementary approach to expand health-service delivery and improve public health. This paper explores the possibilities of task shifting to provide hearing care across the life course by reviewing several ongoing projects in a variety of settings - Bangladesh, India, South Africa and the United States of America. The selected programmes train CHWs to provide a range of hearing-care services, from childhood hearing screening to management of age-related hearing loss. We discuss lessons learnt from these examples to inform best practices for task shifting within community-delivered hearing care. Preliminary evidence supports the feasibility, acceptability and effectiveness of hearing care delivered by CHWs in these varied settings. To make further progress, community-delivered hearing care must build on established models of CHWs and ensure adequate training and supervision, delineation of the scope of practice, supportive local and national legislation, incorporation of appropriate technology and analysis of programme costs and cost-effectiveness. In view of the growing evidence, community-delivered hearing care may now be a way forward to improve hearing health equity.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hearing and vision screening for preschool children using mobile technology, South Africa.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To implement and evaluate a community-based hearing and vision screening programme for preschool children in the Western Cape, South Africa, supported by mobile health technology (mHealth) and delivered by community health workers (CHWs).
METHODS: We trained four CHWs to provide dual sensory screening in preschool centres of Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain during September 2017-December 2018. CHWs screened children aged 4-7 years using mHealth software applications on smartphones. We used logistic regression analysis to evaluate the association between screening results and age, sex and test duration, and, for hearing, excessive background noise levels.
RESULTS: CHWs screened 94.4% (8023/10 362) of eligible children at 271 centres at a cost of 5.63 United States dollars per child. The number of children who failed an initial hearing and visual test was 435 (5.4%) and 170 (2.1%), respectively. Hearing test failure was associated with longer test times (odds ratio, OR: 1.022; 95% confidence interval, CI: 1.021-1.024) and excessive background noise levels at 1 kilohertz (kHz) (e.g. OR for left ear: 1.688; 95% CI: 1.198-2.377). Visual screening failure was associated with longer test duration (OR: 1.003; 95% CI: 1.002-1.005) and younger age (OR: 0.629; 95% CI: 0.520-0.761). Of the total screened, 111 (1.4%) children were diagnosed with a hearing and/or visual impairment.
CONCLUSION: mHealth-supported CHW-delivered hearing and vision screening in preschool centres provided a low-cost, acceptable and accessible service, contributing to lower referral numbers to resource-constrained public health institutions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-utility of individual internet-based and face-to-face Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy compared with treatment as usual in reducing psychological distress in cancer patients.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: It was previously determined that group-based face-to-face Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) and individual internet-based MBCT (eMBCT) are equally efficacious compared with treatment as usual (TAU) in reducing psychological distress. In this study, the incremental cost-utility of both interventions compared with TAU was assessed.
METHODS: This cost-utility study included 245 self-referred heterogeneous cancer patients with psychological distress who were randomized to MBCT, eMBCT or TAU. Healthcare costs and (informal) work-related productivity losses were assessed by interview. Outcomes were expressed in EuroQol-5D-3L utility scores and quality-adjusted life years (QALY). An economic evaluation with a time-horizon of 3 months was conducted from the societal perspective in the intention-to-treat sample. In addition, secondary explorative analyses of costs and quality of life during the 9-month follow-up were conducted based on linear extrapolation of TAU.
RESULTS: Paid work-related productivity losses and societal costs were lower in both intervention conditions compared with TAU during the 3-month intervention period. Moreover, quality of life (utility scores) improved in eMBCT versus TAU (Cohen's d: .54) and MBCT versus TAU (.53). At a willingness to pay of €20000 per QALY, the mean incremental net monetary benefit was €1916 (SD=€783) in eMBCT and €2365 (SD=€796) in MBCT versus TAU. Exploration of costs demonstrated an equal pattern of eMBCT and MBCT being superior to TAU. Quality of life at 9-month follow-up remained improved in both interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: Results indicate that eMBCT and MBCT are cost-saving treatments whilst simultaneously improving quality of life for distressed cancer patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comprehensive management of obstructive sleep apnea by telemedicine: Clinical improvement and cost-effectiveness of a Virtual Sleep Unit. A randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a prevalent disease associated with significant morbidity and high healthcare costs. Information and communication technology could offer cost-effective management options.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate an out-of-hospital Virtual Sleep Unit (VSU) based on telemedicine to manage all patients with suspected OSA, including those with and without continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy.
METHODS: This was an open randomized controlled trial. Patients with suspected OSA were randomized to hospital routine (HR) or VSU groups to compare the clinical improvement and cost-effectiveness in a non-inferiority analysis. Improvement was assessed by changes in the Quebec Sleep Questionnaire (QSQ), EuroQol (EQ-5D and EQ-VAS), and Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS). The follow-up was 3 months. Cost-effectiveness was assessed by a Bayesian analysis based on quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The HR group (n: 92; 78% OSA, 57% CPAP) compared with the VSU group (n: 94; 83% OSA, 43% CPAP) showed: CPAP compliance was similar in both groups, the QSQ social interactions domain improved significantly more in the HR group whereas the EQ-VAS improved more in the VSU group. Total and OSA-related costs were lower in the VSU group than the HR. The Bayesian cost-effectiveness analysis showed that VSU was cost-effective for a wide range of willingness to pay for QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: The VSU offered a cost-effective means of improving QALYs than HR. However, the assessment of its clinical improvement was influenced by the choice of the questionnaire; hence, additional measurements of clinical improvement are needed. Our findings indicate that VSU could help with the management of many patients, irrespective of CPAP use.
Label Included: 1

Title: Mobile Health Coaching on Nutrition and Lifestyle Behaviors for Subfertile Couples Using the Smarter Pregnancy Program: Model-Based Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The health care costs for reproductive care have substantially increased with the use of in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatment. The mobile health (mHealth) coaching program Smarter Pregnancy is an effective intervention to improve nutrition and lifestyle behaviors and pregnancy rates in (sub)fertile couples, including those who undergo IVF treatment. Therefore, we hypothesize that this mHealth program can also reduce health care costs associated with IVF treatment.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the mHealth coaching program Smarter Pregnancy and compare it to usual care in women of subfertile couples who start their first IVF cycle.
METHODS: This model-based cost-effectiveness analysis was performed on data from couples undergoing IVF treatment at the Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam. A decision tree model was used to assess the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of ongoing pregnancies and costs of use of the mHealth program as compared to usual care. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to consider the uncertainty surrounding the point estimates of the input parameters.
RESULTS: Based on our model including 793 subfertile women undergoing IVF treatment, use of the mHealth program resulted in 86 additional pregnancies and saved €270,000 compared to usual care after two IVF cycles, with an ICER of -€3050 (95% CI -3960 to -540) per additional pregnancy. The largest cost saving was caused by the avoided IVF treatment costs. Sensitivity analyses showed that the mHealth program needs to increase the ongoing pregnancy rate by at least 51% after two IVF cycles for cost saving.
CONCLUSIONS: The mHealth coaching program Smarter Pregnancy is potentially cost saving for subfertile couples preceding their first IVF treatment. Implementation of this mHealth program in routine preconception care for subfertile couples should be seriously considered, given the relatively low costs and promising cost-effectiveness estimates.
Label Included: 1

Title: Efficacy and cost-utility of the eHealth application 'Oncokompas', supporting patients with incurable cancer in finding optimal palliative care, tailored to their quality of life and personal preferences: a study protocol of a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with incurable cancer have to deal with a wide range of symptoms due to their disease and treatment, influencing their quality of life. Nowadays, patients are expected to adopt an active role in managing their own health and healthcare. Oncokompas is an eHealth self-management application developed to support patients in finding optimal palliative care, tailored to their quality of life and personal preferences. A randomized controlled trial will be carried out to determine the efficacy and cost-utility of Oncokompas compared to care as usual.
METHODS: 136 adult patients with incurable lung, breast, colorectal and head and neck cancer, lymphoma and glioma, will be included. Eligible patients have no curative treatment options and a prognosis of at least three months. Patients will be randomly assigned to the intervention group or the control group. The intervention group directly has access to Oncokompas alongside care as usual, while the waiting list control group receives care as usual and will have access to Oncokompas after three months. The primary outcome measure is patient activation, which can be described as a patient's knowledge, skills and confidence to manage his or her own health and healthcare. Secondary outcome measures comprise self-efficacy, health-related quality of life, and costs. Measures will be assessed at baseline, two weeks after randomization, and three months after the baseline measurement.
DISCUSSION: This study will result in knowledge on the efficacy and cost-utility of Oncokompas among patients with incurable cancer. Also, more knowledge will be generated into the need for and costs of palliative care from a societal and healthcare perspective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register identifier: NTR 7494 . Registered on 24 September 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using telemedicine to support care for people with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a qualitative analysis of patients' perspectives.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Telemedicine has been promoted as an economical and effective way to enhance patient care, but its acceptance among patients in low-income and middle-income countries is poorly understood. This study is aimed to explore the experiences and perspectives of people with type 2 diabetes mellitus that used telemedicine to manage their condition.
DESIGN: In-depth and focus group interviews were conducted with participants who have engaged in telemedicine. Questions included were participants' perception on the programme being used, satisfaction as well as engagement with the telemedicine programme. All interviews and focus groups were audio-recorded and transcribed verbatim. Data were analysed using a thematic approach.
PARTICIPANTS AND SETTING: People with type 2 diabetes (n=48) who participated in a randomised controlled study which examined the use of telemedicine for diabetes management were recruited from 11 primary care clinics located within the Klang Valley.
RESULTS: Twelve focus groups and two in-depth interviews were conducted. Four themes emerged from the analysis: (1) generational difference; (2) independence and convenience, (3) sharing of health data and privacy and (4) concerns and challenges. The main obstacles found in patients using the telemedicine systems were related to internet connectivity and difficulties experienced with system interface. Cost was also another significant concern raised by participants. Participants in this study were primarily positive about the benefits of telemedicine, including its ability to provide real-time data and disease monitoring and the reduction in clinic visits.
CONCLUSION: Despite the potential benefits of telemedicine in the long-term care of diabetes, there are several perceived barriers that may limit the effectiveness of this technology. As such, collaboration between educators, healthcare providers, telecommunication service providers and patients are required to stimulate the adoption and the use of telemedicine.NCT0246680.
Label Included: 0

Title: Burden of varicella complications in secondary care, England, 2004 to 2017.
Abstract: BackgroundStrategies to control varicella vary across Europe. Evidence from established programmes has prompted the United Kingdom to re-evaluate the need for universal vaccination. The burden of complicated varicella is a key parameter in the cost-effectiveness analysis.AimOur objective was to estimate the burden of complicated varicella in England.MethodsThis electronic health record surveillance study used data from all NHS hospitals in England to identify varicella admissions between 2004 and 2017. The incidence of pre-defined complications of varicella was estimated using ICD-10 codes. Inpatient costs were calculated based on the payment rules for providers of NHS services.ResultsThere were 61,024 admissions with varicella between 2004 and 2017 and 38.1% had a recognised varicella complication. Incidence of hospitalisation increased by 25% and the proportion with complicated varicella by 24% from 2004/05 to 2016/17. The most common complications were bacterial skin infections (11.25%), pneumonia (4.82%), febrile convulsions (3.39%) and encephalitis (2.44%). Complication rates were higher in older age groups and the type of complications more severe. Length of stay for complicated varicella was 3.1 times longer than for uncomplicated varicella and inpatient costs were 72% greater.ConclusionComplicated varicella has a substantial health and economic burden. These data together with data on impact on quality of life are important in informing the cost-effectiveness analysis of universal varicella vaccination.
Label Included: 0

Title: The ReThink study: a 3-arm parallel randomized trial of cognitive bias modification, with and without adherence promotion, for adolescent anxiety disorder: trial design and protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Anxiety disorders are the most common mental health problem among youth, contribute to reduced quality of daily life, and are associated with high rates of comorbidity. However, treatment rates for anxiety are very low, causing a sizeable treatment gap. There is an immediate need to identify treatment interventions that are effective, affordable, and can be delivered easily to the youth population. Cognitive Bias Modification (CBM) is one potentially effective intervention that could reach youth on a large scale, especially when self-administered at home. Thus, we aim to assess the benefit of CBM to treat youth anxiety. Further, we aim to test whether adding an adherence promotion (AP) component to the CBM intervention can improve outcomes, and whether CBM delivered both with and without the AP component is cost effective.
METHODS: This is a 12-month randomized controlled trial (RCT) conducted within an existing healthcare system. Potentially eligible youth (ages 12 to 17) will be identified by reviewing the electronic health record (EHR) for clinical anxiety diagnoses, which are then confirmed via research interview. We aim to enroll 498 participants and randomize them 1:1:1 to one of three arms: Arm 1 is a Low-Ratio version of the CBM program (nearly identical to the other CBM versions, but minimally effective); Arm 2 is a High-Ratio "active" CBM program; and Arm 3 is the High-Ratio CBM program with an added AP component. Participants will complete assessments at baseline, 1-, 3-, 6- and 12-months post-baseline. Youth in all three arms will self-administer the CBM program at home and will be asked to complete twelve intervention sessions over a four-week period. Arm 3 participants (High-Ratio CBM + AP) will also receive up to four telephone calls from phone coaches during the intervention period to provide technical assistance, encouragement, and motivational enhancement to increase adherence. The primary clinical outcome will be anxiety remission at 6-month follow-up.
DISCUSSION: This study protocol describes the method and design for an RCT to test whether self-administered CBM both with and without adherence promotion can be an effective at-home treatment for anxious youth.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov : NCT02156531, First Posted June 5, 2014.
Label Included: 0

Title: Can a 'consent to contact' community help research teams overcome barriers to recruitment? The development and impact of the 'Research for the Future' community.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Recruitment to health research remains a major challenge. Innovation is required to meet policy commitments to help patients take part in health research. One innovation that may help meet those policy goals is the development of 'consent to contact' systems, where people give generic consent to be contacted about research opportunities. Despite their potential, there are few empirical assessments of different ways of recruiting patients to such communities, or of the value of such communities to local research teams.
MAIN TEXT: We describe the development of the 'Research for the Future'consent to contact community, outline the recruitment of patients to the community, and present data on their participation in research.
DISCUSSION: Over 5000 people have been registered across 3 clinical areas. A range of recruitment strategies have been used, including direct recruitment by clinicians, postal invitations from primary care, and social media. In a 1 year period (2016-2017), the community provided over 1500 participants for a variety of research projects. Feedback from research teams has generally been positive. The 'Research for the Future'consent to contact community has proven feasible and useful for local research teams. Further evaluation is needed to assess the cost-effectiveness of different recruitment strategies, explore patient and researcher experience of its advantages and disadvantages, and explore how the community can be more reflective of the wider population.
Label Included: 0

Title: WhatsApp guidelines - what guidelines? A literature review.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Instant messaging (IM) is pervasive in modern society, including healthcare. WhatsApp, the most cited IM application in healthcare, is used to share sensitive patient information between clinicians. Its use raises legal, regulatory and ethical concerns. Are there guidelines for the clinical use of WhatsApp? Can generic guidelines be developed for the use of IM, for one-to-one and one-to-many healthcare professional communication using WhatsApp as an example?
AIM: We aimed to investigate if there are guidelines for using WhatsApp in clinical practice.
METHOD: Nine electronic databases were searched in January 2019 for articles on WhatsApp in clinical service. Inclusion criteria: paper was in English, reported on WhatsApp use or potential use in clinical practice, addressed legal, regulatory or ethical issues and presented some form of guideline or guidance for WhatsApp use.
RESULTS: In total, 590 unique articles were found and 167 titles and abstracts met the inclusion criteria. Twenty-one articles identified the need for general guidelines. Twelve articles provided some form of guidance for using WhatsApp. Issues addressed were confidentiality, identification and privacy (eight articles), security (seven), record keeping (four) and storage (three). Mandatory national guidelines for the use of IM for patient-sensitive information do not appear to exist, only advisories that counsel against its use.
CONCLUSION: The literature showed clinicians use IM because of its simplicity, timeliness and cost effectiveness. No suitable guidelines exist. Generic guidelines are required for the use of IM for healthcare delivery which can be adapted to local circumstance and messaging service used.
Label Included: 0

Title: The breakeven point for implementing telehealth.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: There are finite resources available to spend on healthcare, with the increasing burden of disease and the increasing cost of providing healthcare it is imperative that methods for optimising health systems to improve sustainability are investigated. This study is part of a larger body of work investigating the potential for telehealth to improve the economic sustainability of the health system. The aim of this sub-analysis is to investigate the breakeven point for implementing a telehealth service; that is the point after which the initial investment is recouped and the cost savings have become tangible.
METHOD: Literature searches were conducted using broad terms for telehealth and economics to identify economic evaluation literature focusing on telehealth. Articles were included if they reported their findings from a health system perspective, demonstrated cost savings, and provided sufficient information to calculate the breakeven point.
RESULTS: Less than half of the economic analysis studies examined reported cost savings for the health system as a result of telehealth. The breakeven point could be calculated for 12 articles, all of which were included in the analysis. These articles described evaluations for store-and-forward, remote monitoring and videoconference services. The breakeven points for these services ranged from near immediate (less than 1 year) to 9 years. Remote monitoring and store-and-forward services reached their breakeven points sooner than the videoconference services.
CONCLUSION: The results demonstrated that telehealth is cost saving for the health system in a proportion of services. When costs are saved, the breakeven point can be immediate (less than 1 year) or may take more time to eventuate.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementation of speech pathology telepractice services for clinical swallowing assessment: An evaluation of service outcomes, costs and consumer satisfaction.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Timely assessment of swallowing disorders (dysphagia) by speech pathologists helps minimise patient risk, optimise quality of life, and limit healthcare costs. This study involved a multi-site implementation of a validated model for conducting adult clinical swallowing assessments via telepractice and examined its service outcomes, costs and consumer satisfaction.
METHODS: Five hub-spoke telepractice services, encompassing 18 facilities were established across a public health service. Service implementation support, including training of the telepractice speech pathologists (T-SP) and healthcare support workers in each site, was facilitated by an experienced project officer. New referrals from spoke sites were managed by the hub T-SP as per published protocols for dysphagia assessments via telepractice. Data was collected on existing service models prior to implementation, and then patient demographics, referral information, session outcomes, costs and patient and T-SP satisfaction when using telepractice.
RESULTS: The first 50 sessions were analysed. Referrals were predominantly for inpatients at spoke sites. Telepractice assessments were completed successfully, with only minor technical issues. Changes to patient management (i.e. food/fluid changes post assessment) to optimise safety or progress oral intake, was required for 64% of patients. Service and cost efficiencies were achieved with an average 2-day reduction in waiting time and an average cost benefit of $218 per session when using the telepractice service over standard care. High clinician and patient satisfaction was reported.
CONCLUSION: Telepractice services were successfully introduced across multiple sites, and achieved service and cost benefits with high consumer satisfaction.
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost-consequence analysis comparing patient travel, outreach, and telehealth clinic models for a specialist diabetes service to Indigenous people in Queensland.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The delivery of specialist health services to people living in Indigenous communities is an important challenge. Specialist diabetes outpatient clinics may be delivered via a patient travelling to a metropolitan hospital, during an outreach clinic, or by telehealth. The aim of this study was to compare the costs and consequences of different service models for delivering specialist diabetes clinics for a remote Indigenous community.
METHOD: Patient travel, outreach and telehealth clinic models were compared using a cost-consequence analysis principles. The setting was Cunnamulla, a remote Indigenous community in Western Queensland. Costs were calculated by quantifying the staff resources and travel costs for each clinic model. Costs were reported in Australian dollars and reported from the health service perspective.
RESULTS: The marginal cost per patient for each clinic were $692 for patient travel, $482 for the outreach and $284 for telehealth. If a patient travel appointment was replaced with telehealth, approximately $517 in costs for patient travel reimbursement would be avoided. While replacing an entire outreach clinic with a telehealth clinic would reduce costs by approximately $3961.
CONCLUSION: The marginal cost of patient travel to a metropolitan clinic and outreach clinic appointments was greater than telehealth. Telehealth is unlikely to completely replace the need for patient travel or outreach clinics. However, replacing a proportion of these appointments with telehealth may reduce the overall costs of providing specialist diabetes care in remote communities. Telehealth may have advantages beyond economic as it reduces the time away from usual activities for both the patient and endocrinologist.
Label Included: 0

Title: The California Telepathology Service: UCLA's Experience in Deploying a Regional Digital Pathology Subspecialty Consultation Network.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The need for extending pathology diagnostic expertise to more areas is now being met by the maturation of technology that can effectively deliver this level of care. The experience and lessons learned from our successfully deployed International Telepathology Service (ITS) to a hospital system in China guided us in starting a domestic telepathology network, the California Telepathology Service (CTS). Many of the lessons learned from the ITS project informed our decision-making for the CTS. New challenges were recognized and overcome, such as addressing the complexity and cost-benefit tradeoffs involved in setting up a digital consultation system that competes with an established conventional glass slide delivery system.
METHODS: The CTS is based on a hub-and-spoke telepathology network using Leica Biosystems whole-slide image scanners and the eSlide Manager (eSM Version 12.3.3.7055, Leica Biosystems) digital image management software solution. The service currently comprises six spoke sites (UC San Diego [UCSD], UC Irvine [UCI], UC Davis, Northridge Hospital Medical Center [NHMC], Olive View Medical Center [OVMC], and Children's Hospital Los Angeles) and one central hub site (UCLA Medical Center). So far, five sites have been validated for telepathology case consultations following established practice guidelines, and four sites (UCI, UCSD, NHMC, and OVMC) have activated the service.
RESULTS: For the active spoke sites, we reviewed the volume, turnaround time (TAT), and case types and evaluated for utility and value. From May 2017 to July 2018, a total of 165 cases were submitted. Of note, digital consultations were particularly advantageous for preliminary kidney biopsy diagnoses (avg TAT 0.7 day).
CONCLUSION: For spoke sites, telepathology provided shortened TAT and significant financial savings over hiring faculty with expertise to support a potentially low-volume service. For the hub site, the value includes exposure to educationally valuable cases, additional caseload volume to support specialized services, and improved communication with referring facilities over traditional carrier mail. The creation of a hub-and-spoke telepathology network is an expensive undertaking, and careful consideration needs to be given to support the needs of the clinical services, acquisition and effective deployment of the appropriate equipment, network requirements, and laboratory workflows to ensure a successful and cost-effective system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Usage of a German prevention and health promotion web portal and cost per pageview: A life-cycle assessment.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Web portals providing health information online have the potential to reach large numbers of people. Yet few studies have assessed usage and costs of health portals, especially over an extended period of time.
OBJECTIVES: First, to assess the usage of a web portal on prevention and health promotion that was initiated by the German states of Berlin and Brandenburg. Second, to estimate average cost per pageview over the full web portal life-cycle.
METHODS: Usage data were gathered through Google Analytics. The main usage metric assessed was pageviews originating from an IP address in Berlin or Brandenburg. Project cost data were reported by the local government and from own records. Descriptive and regression analyses were used to determine time trends in pageviews.
RESULTS: The redesigned web portal Praeventionsatlas.de launched August 2011 and was discontinued March 2018. Analyzing the full calendar years only, the annual pageview number increased from 2012 (8492) to its peak in 2014 (11,876) and steadily decreased to its minimum in 2017 (7232). Pages of the web portal were most often viewed around lunchtime (12 to 1 p.m.), in the middle of the week (Wed to Thu), and at the beginning of the year (Jan to Feb). Adjusting for year, month, and weekday, the number of daily pageviews dropped on major public holidays (Easter -9, Pentecost -12, Christmas -12 and New Year's Eve and Day -20; p < .001) and increased during the fasting period before Easter (+6; p < .001). Average cost per page viewed from relaunch until the web portal went offline was estimated to be €0.38 (€0.33 to €1.67) per pageview.
CONCLUSION: Usage of the web portal showed temporal variation and peaked before the middle of its 6.5 year life-cycle. Development and need for updates may require substantial investment in a web portal, such that a pageview can come at a considerable expense, even in small-scale projects. Assessing and discussing the cost-effectiveness of a web portal is therefore desirable.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telephone interventions for co-morbid insomnia and osteoarthritis pain: The OsteoArthritis and Therapy for Sleep (OATS) randomized trial design.
Abstract: The OsteoArthritis and Therapy for Sleep (OATS) study is a population-based randomized controlled trial of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBTI) with four innovative methodological aims. These are to: (1) Enroll representative participants across Washington state, including those from medically underserved communities; (2) Enroll persons with persistent insomnia and chronic osteoarthritis (OA) pain; (3) Test a scalable CBT-I intervention; and (4) Evaluate patient-reported outcomes (insomnia, pain severity, fatigue, depression) and cost-effectiveness over one year. This paper describes progress towards achieving these aims. The target population was persons age 60+ who had received OA care within the Kaiser Permanente Washington (KPW) health care system. We employed a two-phase screening via mail survey and telephone follow-up, with a 3-week interval between screens to exclude persons with spontaneous improvement in sleep or pain symptoms. Participants were randomized to a 6-session telephone-delivered CBT-I intervention or a 6-session telephone education only control condition (EOC). Blinded outcome assessments (completed online or on mailed paper forms) included primary and secondary sleep and pain outcome measures and quality of life measures. We obtained healthcare utilization from administrative claims data. Intent to treat analyses, including all participants randomized when they scheduled the first telephone session, will be conducted to compare CBT-I and EOC outcomes. The trial will be the largest experimental evaluation of telephone CBT-I to date, and the first to evaluate its cost-effectiveness. Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02946957.
Label Included: 0

Title: Characteristics and outcome of patients set up on high-flow oxygen therapy at home.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: High-flow oxygen therapy (HFOT) is increasingly used for acute respiratory failure. Few data support its use at home for the treatment of chronic respiratory failure. Our aim was to report the pattern of the use of long-term HFOT in our center and the outcome of patients setup on long-term HFOT.
METHODS: A retrospective monocentric study including all patients setup on long-term HFOT between January 2011 and April 2018 in Rouen University Hospital was carried out. Patients were divided into two groups, patients with hypoxemic respiratory failure treated with nasal HFOT (nHFOT) and tracheotomized patients treated with tracheal HFOT (tHFOT).
RESULTS: A total of 71 patients were established on long-term HFOT. Out of these 43 (61%) were included in the nHFOT group and 28 (39%) were included in the tHFOT group. In the nHFOT group, underlying respiratory diseases were interstitial lung disease (n = 15, 35%), pulmonary hypertension (n = 12, 28%), lung cancer (n = 9, 21%), and chronic airway disease (n = 7, 16%). In the tHFOT group, the number of admissions for exacerbation decreased by -0.78 per year (-2 to 0) (p = 0.045). In total, 51 (72%) patients were discharged to their homes and 20 (28%) went to a post-acute re-enablement facility. Median survival following HFOT was 7.5 months. Survival was significantly lower in the nHFOT group with a median survival of 3.6 months whereas median survival was not reached in the tHFOT group (p < 0.001). Monthly costs associated with home delivery of HFOT were €476 (296-533) with significant differences in costs between the nHFOT group of €520 (408-628) and costs in the tHFOT group of €296 (261-475) (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The use of long-term HFOT allows very severe patients to be discharged at a reasonable cost from acute care facilities. The reviews of this paper are available via the supplementary material section.
Label Included: 0

Title: CYP2D6 Genotype-guided Metoprolol Therapy in Cardiac Surgery Patients: Rationale and Design of the Pharmacogenetic-guided Metoprolol Management for Postoperative Atrial Fibrillation in Cardiac Surgery (PREEMPTIVE) Pilot Study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The Preemptive Pharmacogenetic-guided Metoprolol Management for Atrial Fibrillation in Cardiac Surgery (PREEMPTIVE) pilot trial aims to use existing institutional resources to develop a process for integrating CYP2D6 pharmacogenetic test results into the patient electronic health record, to develop an evidence-based clinical decision support tool to facilitate CYP2D6 genotype-guided metoprolol administration in the cardiac surgery setting, and to determine the impact of implementing this CYP2D6 genotype-guided integrated approach on the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF), provider, and cost outcomes.
DESIGN: One-arm Bayesian adaptive design clinical trial.
SETTING: Single center, university hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: The authors will screen (including CYP2D6 genotype) up to 600 (264 ± 144 expected under the adaptive design) cardiac surgery patients, and enroll up to 200 (88 ± 48 expected) poor, intermediate, and ultrarapid CYP2D6 metabolizers over a period of 2 years at a tertiary academic center.
INTERVENTIONS: All consented and enrolled patients will receive the intervention of CYP2D6 genotype-guided metoprolol management based on CYP2D6 phenotype classified as a poor, intermediate, extensive (normal), or ultrarapid metabolizer.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The primary outcome will be the incidence of postoperative AF. Secondary outcomes relating to rates of CYP2D6 genotype-guided prescription changes, costs, lengths of stay, and implementation metrics also will be investigated.
CONCLUSIONS: The PREEMPTIVE pilot study is the first perioperative pilot trial to provide essential information for the design of a future, large-scale trial comparing CYP2D6 genotype-guided metoprolol management with a nontailored strategy in terms of managing AF. In addition, secondary outcomes regarding implementation, clinical benefit, safety, and cost-effectiveness in patients undergoing cardiac surgery will be examined.
Label Included: 0

Title: Demonstrated Cost-Effectiveness of a Telehomecare Program for Gestational Diabetes Mellitus Management.
Abstract: Background: Prevalence of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) has increased steadily in recent years. Pregnant women with GDM are at risk for obstetrical and neonatal complications and require close multidisciplinary follow-up, which implies a significant use of hospital resources. Methods: A prospective noninferiority and controlled clinical trial was designed. The telehomecare (THCa) initiative is a clinical remote patient management project in women with GDM. The main objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of THCa by assessing the direct costs, including the related reduction in medical visits. Secondary outcomes were to evaluate the impact of THCa on diabetes control, GDM-related complications, and patient satisfaction. Results: A total of 161 women were assigned to either an intervention group provided with a THCa system for transmission and online analysis of capillary glucose data (n = 80) or a control group receiving usual care in the clinic (n = 81). A decrease in medical visits by 56% (P < 0.001) in the THCa group was observed. There was no difference between the two groups in diabetes control or maternal and fetal complications. However, results showed a 10-fold increase in nursing interventions in THCa group (mainly by phone calls and e-mails). Satisfaction with care was high. Direct cost analysis revealed savings of 16% in patients followed by THCa compared with the control group. Conclusion: THCa monitoring significantly decreases medical visits and direct costs in GDM women without compromising pregnancy outcomes, quality of care, or patient satisfaction. THCa was shown to be cost-effective despite placing an additional burden on nursing time.
Label Included: 0

Title: 'Your Tube': the role of different diets in children who are gastrostomy fed: protocol for a mixed methods exploratory sequential study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Increasing numbers of children require having all, or part, of their nutritional intake via gastrostomy. More parents are using home-blended meals to feed their children, with many reporting beneficial effects such as improved gastro-oesophageal reflux, less constipation and less distress in their child.This study aims to identify the important outcomes of tube feeding in this population, compare the safety, outcomes and resource use of those on a home-blended diet compared with a formula diet and assess feasibility of long-term follow-up of children recruited to this study.
METHODS AND ANALYSES: This is a mixed methods study of children (aged 6 months to 18 years) who are gastrostomy feed dependent recruited via general, community and specialist paediatric and dietetic services. Workstream1 (WS1): a qualitative study involving semistructured interviews with parents (n~20) and young people (n~5-10), and focus groups with health professionals (n~25), will provide evidence of appropriate outcome measures and the feasibility/acceptability of proposed data collection methods for WS2. It will gather data on: desired outcomes of gastrostomy feeding, variability in diets and reasons; use of oral feeding; perceived benefits of the alternative diets, resources associated with gastrostomy feeding and safety issues. Data will be analysed using thematic analysis. WS2: a cohort study of 300 children who are gastrostomy fed. Data will be collected at months 0, 9 and 18 from parents, children (if appropriate) and clinicians using standardised measures and questionnaires developed specifically for the study. Data collected will include gastrointestinal symptoms, health and other outcomes (child, parent), dietary intake, anthropometry, healthcare usage, safety outcomes and resource use. Outcomes in the home-blended and formula groups will be compared using appropriate multiple regression analyses.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has been approved by a research ethics committee (REC reference: 19/YH/0028). Results will be disseminated through publications and presentations for professionals and families.
STUDY REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN13977361.
Label Included: 0

Title: Risk Stratification of Fetal Cardiac Anomalies in an Underserved Population Using Telecardiology.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate a fetal telecardiology program in a medically underserved area.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective case series of pregnant women at 18-38 weeks of gestation with risk factors for fetal congenital heart disease. Obstetric ultrasonographers performed fetal echocardiograms (local site) that were read in real time. The results were given to the mother by a fetal cardiologist at a children's hospital 243 miles and two mountain passes away (distant site). We evaluated the fetal telecardiology program in five domains: 1) education of obstetric ultrasonographers before initiation of telecardiology services, 2) process and efficiency, 3) patient satisfaction, 4) economic effects, and 5) accuracy of cardiac diagnosis and success of risk stratification.
RESULTS: The program was initiated on November 12, 2015, and here we describe its first 37 months. Over the initial training period of 3 months and about 70 examinations, obstetric ultrasonographers improved their identification of fetal congenital heart disease. Telecardiology was performed once a week and also for suspected fetal congenital heart disease or arrhythmia outside clinic hours, for a total of 455 examinations. All mothers preferred having their fetal cardiac evaluations performed locally as opposed to traveling to the distant center. The estimated cost to parents for fetal cardiac evaluation at the distant center was nine times greater than that of telecardiology ($581 vs $61). Congenital heart disease or arrhythmia was diagnosed in 28 and 15 fetuses, respectively; there was one false-negative result. All fetuses were correctly risk-stratified with respect to delivery location.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither diagnostic quality nor patient satisfaction were sacrificed with telecardiology. The program was feasible, empowered the local health care providers and ultrasonographers, offered strong economic advantages to families, and offered the benefit of timely standard-of-care, face-to-face consultation without travel. Based on the success of this program, further studies are warranted to assess its replicability.
Label Included: 0

Title: Estimating the Impact of Novel Digital Therapeutics in Type 2 Diabetes and Hypertension: Health Economic Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Behavioral interventions can meaningfully improve cardiometabolic conditions. Digital therapeutics (DTxs) delivering these interventions may provide benefits comparable to pharmacologic therapies, displacing medications for some patients.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to estimate the economic impact of a digital behavioral intervention in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and hypertension (HTN) and estimate the impact of clinical inertia on deprescribing medications.
METHODS: Decision analytic models estimated health resource savings and cost effectiveness from a US commercial payer perspective. A 3-year time horizon was most relevant to the intervention and payer. Effectiveness of the DTx in improving clinical outcomes was based on cohort studies and published literature. Health resource utilization (HRU), health state utilities, and costs were drawn from the literature with costs adjusted to 2018 dollars. Future costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were discounted at 3%. Sensitivity analyses assessed uncertainty.
RESULTS: Average HRU savings ranged from $97 to $145 per patient per month, with higher potential benefits in T2DM. Cost-effectiveness acceptability analyses using a willingness-to-pay of $50,000/QALY indicated that the intervention would be cost effective at total 3-year program costs of $6468 and $6620 for T2DM and HTN, respectively. Sensitivity analyses showed that reduced medication costs are a primary driver of potential HRU savings, and the results were robust within values tested. A resistance to deprescribe medications when a patient's clinical outcomes improve can substantially reduce the estimated economic benefits. Our models rely on estimates of clinical effectiveness drawn from limited cohort studies with DTxs and cannot account for other disease management programs that may be implemented. Performance of DTxs in real-world settings is required to further validate their economic benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: The DTxs studied may provide substantial cost savings, in part by reducing the use of conventional medications. Clinical inertia may limit the full cost savings of DTxs.
Label Included: 1

Title: SERIES: eHealth in primary care. Part 1: Concepts, conditions and challenges.
Abstract: Primary care is challenged to provide high quality, accessible and affordable care for an increasingly ageing, complex, and multimorbid population. To counter these challenges, primary care professionals need to take up new and innovative practices, including eHealth. eHealth applications hold the promise to overcome some difficulties encountered in the care of people with complex medical and social needs in primary care. However, many unanswered questions regarding (cost) effectiveness, integration with healthcare, and acceptability to patients, caregivers, and professionals remain to be elucidated. What conditions need to be met? What challenges need to be overcome? What downsides must be dealt with? This first paper in a series on eHealth in primary care introduces basic concepts and examines opportunities for the uptake of eHealth in primary care. We illustrate that although the potential of eHealth in primary care is high, several conditions need to be met to ensure that safe and high-quality eHealth is developed for and implemented in primary care. eHealth research needs to be optimized; ensuring evidence-based eHealth is available. Blended care, i.e. combining face-to-face care with remote options, personalized to the individual patient should be considered. Stakeholders need to be involved in the development and implementation of eHealth via co-creation processes, and design should be mindful of vulnerable groups and eHealth illiteracy. Furthermore, a global perspective on eHealth should be adopted, and eHealth ethics, patients' safety and privacy considered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Personalized, Web-Based, Guided Self-Help for Patients With Medically Unexplained Symptoms in Primary Care: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) constitute a major health problem because of their high prevalence, the suffering and disability they cause, and the associated medical costs. Web-based interventions may provide an accessible and convenient tool for managing MUS. We developed a personalized, Web-based, guided self-help intervention for MUS in primary care (Grip self-help) and would compare its effectiveness with that of usual care.
OBJECTIVE: This paper aims to describe the rationale, objectives, and design of a pragmatic randomized controlled trial (RCT) assessing the effectiveness of Grip self-help.
METHODS: For a pragmatic multicenter RCT, 165 adult patients with mild to moderate MUS will be recruited through general practices in the Netherlands. Randomization will be performed at general practice level. Over the course of several months, patients in the intervention group will receive a personalized set of Web-based self-help exercises, targeting the unhelpful cognitions, emotions, behaviors, and social factors that are relevant to them. The intervention is guided by a general practice mental health worker. The control group will receive care-as-usual. Primary outcome is physical health-related quality of life (RAND-36 or 36-item general health survey, physical component score). Secondary outcomes include severity of physical and psychological symptoms, mental health-related quality of life, cost-effectiveness, and acceptability. Assessments will take place at baseline, end of treatment, and at 16-, 26-, and 52-week follow-ups.
RESULTS: Recruitment started in December 2018, and enrolment is ongoing. The first results are expected to be submitted for publication in December 2021.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first study to combine the concepts of electronic health, self-help, and personalized medicine in the treatment of MUS. By improving the quality of life and reducing symptoms of patients with MUS, Grip self-help has the potential to reduce costs and conserve scarce health care resources.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Dutch Trial Register NTR7390; https://www.trialregister.nl/trial/7390.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): PRR1-10.2196/13738.
Label Included: 0

Title: Can telemedicine initiative be an effective intervention strategy for improving treatment compliance for pediatric HIV patients: Evidences on costs and improvement in treatment compliance from Maharashtra, India.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: India has recently introduced telemedicine initiatives to enhance access to specialized care at a low cost for the pediatric HIV patients, who face multiple challenges due to growing disease burden and limited preparedness of the health system to address it. There are limited evidences on the cost-effectiveness of these interventions. This study was undertaken in Maharashtra, a province, located in the western region of the country, to inform policy regarding the effectiveness of this programme. The objective was to estimate the unit cost of ART services for pediatric HIV patients and examine the efficiency in the use of resource and treatment compliance resulting from telemedicine initiatives in pediatric HIV compared to usual ART services.
METHODS: We selected 6 ART centers (3 from linked centers linked to Pediatric HIV Centre of Excellence (PCoE) and 3 from non-linked centers) randomly from three high, middle and low ART centers, categorized on the basis of case load in each arm. A bottom up costing methodology was adopted to understand the unit cost of services. Loss to follow up and timeliness of the visits were compared between the two arms and were linked to the cost.
RESULTS: The average cost per-visit was INR 1803 in the linked centers and that for the non-linked centers was INR 3412. There has been 5 percentage point improvement in lost to follow-up in the linked centers compared to non-linked centers against a back-drop of a reduction in per-pediatric patient cost of INR 557. The linkage has resulted in increase in timeliness of the visits in linked centers compared to non-linked centers.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The telemedicine linkage led to an increase in the case load leading to a decrease in cost. The evidence on efficiency in the use of resource and improvement in treatment compliance as suggested by this study could be used to scale up this initiative.
Label Included: 0

Title: Towards a Stakeholder-Oriented Blockchain-Based Architecture for Electronic Health Records: Design Science Research Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Data security issues still constitute the main reason for the sluggish dissemination of electronic health records (EHRs). Given that blockchain technology offers the possibility to verify transactions through a decentralized network, it may serve as a solution to secure health-related data. Therefore, we have identified stakeholder-specific requirements and propose a blockchain-based architecture for EHRs, while referring to the already existing scientific discussions on the potential of blockchain for use in EHRs.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to introduce blockchain technology for EHRs, based on identifying stakeholders and systematically eliciting their requirements, and to discuss the key benefits (KBs) and key challenges (KCs) of blockchain technology in the context of EHRs.
METHODS: The blockchain-based architecture was developed in the framework of the design science research paradigm. The requirements were identified using a structured literature review and interviews with nine health care experts. Subsequently, the proposed architecture was evaluated using 4 workshops with 15 participants.
RESULTS: We identified three major EHR stakeholder groups and 34 respective requirements. On this basis, we developed a five-layer architecture. The subsequent evaluation of the artifact was followed by the discussion of 12 KBs and 12 KCs of a blockchain-based architecture for EHRs. To address the KCs, we derived five recommendations for action for science and practice.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that blockchain technology offers considerable potential to advance EHRs. Improvements to currently available EHR solutions are expected, for instance, in the areas of data security, traceability, and automation by smart contracts. Future research could examine the patient's acceptance of blockchain-based EHRs and cost-benefit analyses.
Label Included: 0

Title: Developing Health Policy That Drives Compassion in a Value-Driven Health Care System.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: A nurse-led implantable loop recorder service is safe and cost effective.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Implantable loop recorders (ILR) are predominantly implanted by cardiologists in the catheter laboratory. We developed a nurse-delivered service for the implantation of LINQ (Medtronic; Minnesota) ILRs in the outpatient setting. This study compared the safety and cost-effectiveness of the introduction of this nurse-delivered ILR service with contemporaneous physician-led procedures.
METHODS: Consecutive patients undergoing an ILR at our institution between 1st July 2016 and 4th June 2018 were included. Data were prospectively entered into a computerized database, which was retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 475 patients underwent ILR implantation, 271 (57%) of these were implanted by physicians in the catheter laboratory and 204 (43%) by nurses in the outpatient setting. Six complications occurred in physician-implants and two in nurse-implants (P = .3). Procedural time for physician-implants (13.4 ± 8.0 minutes) and nurse-implants (14.2 ± 10.1 minutes) were comparable (P = .98). The procedural cost was estimated as £576.02 for physician-implants against £279.95 with nurse-implants, equating to a 57.3% cost reduction. In our center, the total cost of ILR implantation in the catheter laboratory by physicians was £10 513.13 p.a. vs £6661.55 p.a. with a nurse-delivered model. When overheads for running, cleaning, and maintaining were accounted for, we estimated a saving of £68 685.75 was performed by moving to a nurse-delivered model for ILR implants. Over 133 catheter laboratory and implanting physician hours were saved and utilized for other more complex procedures.
CONCLUSION: ILR implantation in the outpatient setting by suitably trained nurses is safe and leads to significant financial savings.
Label Included: 0

Title: The NoHoW protocol: a multicentre 2×2 factorial randomised controlled trial investigating an evidence-based digital toolkit for weight loss maintenance in European adults.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Obesity and associated diseases place a severe burden on healthcare systems. Behavioural interventions for weight loss (WL) are successful in the short term but often result in weight regain over time. Self-regulation of eating and activity behaviours may significantly enhance weight loss maintenance (WLM) and may be effectively augmented by contextual behavioural approaches to emotion regulation. The NoHoW trial tests the efficacy of a theoretically informed, evidence-based digital toolkit using a mobile-enabled website, activity trackers and Wi-Fi scales for WLM aiming to target (1) self-regulation and motivation, and (2) emotion regulation in adults who achieved clinically significant (≥5%) WL in the previous 12 months (initial body mass index (BMI) ≥25 kg/m2).
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The study is an 18-month, 3-centre, 2×2 factorial single-blind, randomised controlled trial, which recruited 1627 participants achieving ≥5% WL between March 2017 and March 2018. Participants are randomly allocated to one of four arms: (1) self-monitoring only (self-weighing and activity tracker), (2) self-regulation and motivation, (3) emotion regulation or (4) combined self-regulation, motivation and emotion regulation. Participants attend four clinical investigation days at 0, 6, 12 and 18 months and are instructed to use the digital toolkit for 18 weeks during the first 6 months and at their discretion for the remaining 12 months. The primary outcome is change in weight (kg) at 12 months from baseline. Secondary outcomes are body composition (eg, bioimpedance analysis), health biomarkers (glycated haemoglobin, lipids, blood pressure, hair cortisol), dietary intake, physical activity, sleep, motivational, self-regulatory, emotion regulatory moderators/mediators of WLM, engagement, user experience, acceptability and cost-effectiveness of the interventions.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval was granted by Institutional Ethics Committees at the Universities of Leeds (17-0082; 27 February 2017), Lisbon (17/2016; 20 February 2017) and Capital Region of Denmark (H-16030495, 8 March 2017). Results will be published in scientific journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN88405328.
Label Included: 0

Title: What is the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of using digital health technologies to improve treatment -adherence and outcomes in patients with tuberculosis?
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of interventions for the treatment of asthma in children: A systematic review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: This systematic review aimed to identify and critique full economic evaluations (EEs) of childhood asthma treatments with the intention to guide researchers and commissioners of pediatric asthma services toward potentially cost-effective strategies.
METHODS: "MEDLINE," "Embase," "EconLit," "NHS EED," and "CEA" databases were searched to identify relevant EEs published between 2005 and May 2017. Quality of included studies was assessed with a published checklist.
RESULTS: Eighteen studies were identified and comprised one cost-benefit analysis, 11 cost-effectiveness analyses, one cost-minimization analysis, and six cost-utility analyses. Treatments included pharmaceutical (n = 11) and non-pharmaceutical (n = 7) interventions. Fourteen studies identified cost-effective strategies. The quality of the studies varied and there were uncertainties due to the methods and relevance of data used.
CONCLUSION: Good-quality economic evaluation studies of pediatric asthma treatments are lacking. EE of new technologies adapted to local settings is recommended and can result in cost savings.
Label Included: 0

Title: A patient-centric cost analysis of store-and-forward teledermatology.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: A Systematic Literature Review of Reviews on the Effectiveness of Chlamydia Testing.
Abstract: Chlamydia trachomatis is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection, causing significant morbidity and economic burden. Strategies like national screening programs or home-testing kits were introduced in some developed countries, yet their effectiveness remains controversial. In this systematic review, we examined reviews of chlamydia screening interventions to assess their effectiveness and the elements that contribute to their success to guide public policy and future research. We assessed English material published after 2000 in PubMed, the Cochrane Library, the British Nursing Index, Medical Database, and Sociological Abstracts, in addition to World Health Organization Global Health Sector Strategies, the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control guidelines, and the Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews. Systematic reviews that focused on chlamydia screening interventions were included. Using the socioecological model, we examined the levels of interventions that may affect the uptake of chlamydia screening. A total of 19 systematic reviews were included. Self-collection in home-testing kits significantly increased screening among girls and women 14-50 years of age. At the organizational level, using electronic health records and not creating additional costs facilitated testing. At the community level, outreach interventions in community and parent centers and homeless shelters achieved high screening rates. At the policy level, interventions with educational and advisory elements could result in significant improvements in screening rates.
Label Included: 0

Title: EULAR points to consider for the development, evaluation and implementation of mobile health applications aiding self-management in people living with rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mobile health applications (apps) are available to enable people with rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases (RMDs) to better self-manage their health. However, guidance on the development and evaluation of such apps is lacking.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this EULAR task force was to establish points to consider (PtC) for the development, evaluation and implementation of apps for self-management of RMDs.
METHODS: A systematic literature review of app content and development strategies was conducted, followed by patient focus group and an online survey. Based on this information and along with task force expert opinion, PtC were formulated in a face-to-face meeting by a multidisciplinary task force panel of experts, including two patient research partners. The level of agreement among the panel in regard to each PtC was established by anonymous online voting.
RESULTS: Three overarching principles and 10 PtC were formulated. Three PtC are related to patient safety, considered as a critical issue by the panel. Three are related to relevance of the content and functionalities. The requirement for transparency around app development and funding sources, along with involvement of relevant health professionals, were also raised. Ease of app access across ages and abilities was highlighted, in addition to considering the cost benefit of apps from the outset. The level of agreement was from 8.8 to 9.9 out of 10.
CONCLUSION: These EULAR PtC provide guidance on important aspects that should be considered for the development, evaluation and implementation of existing and new apps.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of a Mobile Mammography Unit for Breast Cancer Screening to Reduce Geographic and Social Health Inequalities.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the leading cancer in terms of incidence and mortality among women in France. Effective organized screening does exist, however, the participation rate is low, and negatively associated with a low socioeconomic status and remoteness.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness of a mobile mammography (MM) program to increase participation in breast cancer screening and reduce geographic and social inequalities.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis from retrospective data was conducted from the payer perspective, comparing an invitation to a mobile mammography unit (MMU) or to a radiologist's office (MM or RO group) with an invitation to a radiologist's office only (RO group) (n = 37 461). Medical and nonmedical direct costs were estimated. Outcome was screening participation. The mean incremental cost and effect, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, and the cost-effectiveness acceptability curve were estimated.
RESULTS: The mean incremental cost for invitation to MM or RO was estimated to be €23.21 (95% CI, 22.64-23.78) compared with RO only, and with a point of participation gain of 3.8% (95% CI, 2.8-4.8), resulting in an incremental cost per additional screen of €610.69 (95% CI, 492.11-821.01). The gain of participation was more important in women living in deprived areas and for distances exceeding 15 km from an RO.
CONCLUSION: Screening involving a MMU can increase participation in breast cancer screening and reduce geographic and social inequalities while being more cost-effective in remote areas and in deprived areas. Because of the retrospective design, further research is needed to provide more evidence of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of using a MMU for organized breast cancer screening and to determine the optimal conditions for implementing it.
Label Included: 0

Title: Long-term impact of giving antibiotics before skin incision versus after cord clamping on children born by caesarean section: protocol for a longitudinal study based on UK electronic health records.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: In the UK, about a quarter of women give birth by caesarean section (CS) and are offered prophylactic broad-spectrum antibiotics to reduce the risk of maternal postpartum infection. In 2011, national guidance was changed from recommending antibiotics after the umbilical cord was cut to giving antibiotics prior to skin incision based on evidence that earlier administration reduces maternal infectious morbidity. Although antibiotics cross the placenta, there are no known short-term harms to the baby. This study aims to address the research gap on longer term impact of these antibiotics on child health.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A controlled interrupted time series study will use anonymised mother-baby linked routine electronic health records for children born during 2006-2018 recorded in UK primary care (The Health Improvement Network, THIN and Clinical Practice Research Datalink, CPRD) and secondary care (Hospital Episode Statistics, HES) databases. The primary outcomes of interest are asthma and eczema, two common allergy-related diseases in childhood. In-utero exposure to antibiotics immediately prior to CS will be compared with no exposure when given after cord clamping. The risk of outcomes in children delivered by CS will also be compared with a control cohort delivered vaginally to account for time effects. We will use all available data from THIN, CPRD and HES with estimated power of 80% and 90% to detect relative increase in risk of asthma of 16% and 18%, respectively at the 5% significance level.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval has been obtained from the University of Birmingham Ethical Review Committee with scientific approvals obtained from the independent scientific advisory committees from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency for CPRD and the data provider, IQVIA for THIN. The results will be published in peer-reviewed journals, presented at national and international conferences and disseminated to stakeholders.
Label Included: 0

Title: How to develop a sustainable telemedicine service? A Pediatric Telecardiology Service 20 years on - an exploratory study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine services are promoting more access to healthcare. Portugal was an early adopter of telemedicine to overcome both its geological barriers and the shortage of healthcare professionals. The Pediatric Cardiology Service (PCS) at Coimbra University Hospital Centre (CHUC) has been using telemedicine to increase access and coverage since 1998. Their Pediatric Telecardiology Service has been daily connecting CHUC with 13 other Portuguese national hospitals, and regularly connecting with Portuguese-speaking African countries, through a teleconsultation platform.
METHODS: This study aims at exploring the Pediatric Telecardiology Service's evolution, through a comprehensive assessment of the PCS's development, evolution and impact in public health, to better understand the critical factors for implementation and sustainability of telemedicine, in the context of healthcare services digitalization. A case study was performed, with cost-benefit, critical factors and organizational culture assessment. Finally, the Kingdon's framework helped to understand the implementation and scale-up process and the role of policy-making.
RESULTS: With the total of 32,685 out-patient teleconsultations, growing steadily from 1998 to 2016, the Pediatric Telecardiology Service has reached national and international recognition, being a pioneer and an active promotor of telemedicine. This telemedicine service has saved significant resources, about 1.1 million euros for the health system (e.g. in administrative and logistic costs) and approximately 419 euros per patient (considering an average of 1777 patients per year). PCS presents a dominant "Clan" culture. The Momentum's critical factors for telemedicine service implementation enabled us to understand how barriers were overcome (e.g. political forces). Willingness, perseverance and teamwork, allied with partnership with key stakeholders, were the foundation for professionals' engagement and service networking development. Its positive results, new regulations and the increasing support from the hospital board, set up a window of opportunity to establish a sustainable telemedicine service.
CONCLUSION: The Pediatric Telecardiology Service enables real-time communication and the sharing of clinical information, overcoming many barriers (from geographical ones to shortage of healthcare professionals), improving access to specialized care both in Portugal and Africa. Motivation and teamwork, and perseverance, were key for the Pediatric Telecardiology Service to tackle the window of opportunity which created conditions for sustainability.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemonitoring of Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis (TECCU): Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although electronic health interventions are considered safe and efficient, evidence regarding the cost-effectiveness of telemonitoring in inflammatory bowel disease is lacking.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of the Telemonitorización de la Enfermedad de Crohn y Colitis Ulcerosa (Telemonitoring of Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis [TECCU]) Web platform (G_TECCU intervention group) for telemonitoring complex inflammatory bowel disease, compared with standard care (G_control) and nurse-assisted telephone care (G_NT intervention group).
METHODS: We analyzed cost-effectiveness from a societal perspective by comparing the 3 follow-up methods used in a previous 24-week randomized controlled trial, conducted at a tertiary university hospital in Spain. Patients with inflammatory bowel disease who initiated immunosuppressants or biologic agents, or both, to control inflammatory activity were recruited consecutively. Data on the effects on disease activity (using clinical indexes) and quality-adjusted life-years (using the EuroQol 5 dimensions questionnaire) were collected. We calculated the costs of health care, equipment, and patients' productivity and social activity impairment. We compared the mean costs per patient, utilities, and bootstrapped differences.
RESULTS: We included 63 patients (21 patients per group). TECCU saved €1005 (US $1100) per additional patient in remission compared with G_control (95% CI €-13,518 to 3137; US $-14,798 to 3434), with a 79.96% probability of being more effective at lower costs. Compared with G_NT, TECCU saved €2250 (US $2463) per additional patient in remission (95% CI €-15,363 to 11,086; US $-16,817 to 12,135), and G_NT saved €538 (US $589) compared with G_control (95% CI €-6475 to 5303; US $-7088 to 5805). G_TECCU and G_NT showed an 84% and 67% probability, respectively, of producing a cost saving per additional quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) compared with G_control, considering those simulations that involved negative incremental QALYs as well.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a high probability that the TECCU Web platform is more cost-effective than standard and telephone care in the short term. Further research considering larger cohorts and longer time horizons is required.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02943538; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02943538 (http://www. webcitation.org/746CRRtDN).
Label Included: 1

Title: End-of-life care in individuals with respiratory diseases: a population study comparing the dying experience between those with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lung cancer.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Among individuals with COPD and/or lung cancer, to describe end-of-life health service utilization, costs, and place of death; to identify predictors of home palliative care use, and to assess benefits associated with palliative care use.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective population-based study using provincial linked health administrative data (Ontario, Canada) between 2010 and 2015. We examined health care use in the last 90 days of life in adults 35 years and older with physician-diagnosed COPD and/or lung cancer identified using a validated algorithm and the Ontario Cancer Registry, respectively. Four mutually exclusive groups were considered: (i) COPD only, (ii) lung cancer only, (iii) COPD and lung cancer, and (iv) neither COPD nor lung cancer. Multivariable generalized linear models were employed.
RESULTS: Of 445,488 eligible deaths, 34% had COPD only, 4% had lung cancer only, 5% had both and 57% had neither. Individuals with COPD only received less palliative care (20% vs 57%) than those with lung cancer only. After adjustment, people with lung cancer only were far more likely to receive palliative care (OR=4.22, 4.08-4.37) compared to those with neither diagnosis, while individuals with COPD only were less likely to receive palliative care (OR=0.82, 0.81-0.84). Home palliative care use was associated with reduced death and fewer days in acute care, and less cost, regardless of the diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: Although individuals with lung cancer were much more likely to receive palliative care than those with COPD, both populations were underserviced. Results suggest greater involvement of palliative care may improve the dying experience of these populations and reduce costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of telerehabilitation versus traditional care after total hip replacement: A trial-based economic evaluation.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Physical rehabilitation for total hip replacement patients following hospital discharge is beneficial; however, accessing rehabilitation is often challenging. Telerehabilitation helps negate access issues and is efficacious in total knee and hip replacement patients. This study aims to compare the cost-effectiveness of a telerehabilitation programme delivered remotely into patients' homes versus traditional care for total hip replacement patients following hospital discharge.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness (cost-utility) analysis was conducted from the perspective of a health service alongside a two-arm randomised controlled trial comparing telerehabilitation (n=35) with in-person care (n=35) following hospital discharge after total hip replacement. The primary analysis used an Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio to compare the cost per Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) accrued in the telerehabilitation group versus in-person control using costs and effects data from the randomised trial. A secondary analysis was conducted whereby the time accrued by patients attending rehabilitation sessions (including travel time) was considered the "cost" (i.e. a time burden), rather than cost from the health service perspective.
RESULTS: Estimated mean differences in healthcare costs and QALYs gained were detected but were not significant. The estimated mean (95%CI) difference in cost of telerehabilitation versus in-person was -$28.90 (-$96.37 to $40.45), favouring the telerehabilitation group. The estimated mean (95%CI) difference in QALYs gained from telerehabilitation versus in-person was -0.0025 (-0.0227 to 0.0217). The estimated mean (95%CI) difference in time burden favoured less time burden for the telerehabilitation group (-4.21 (-4.69 to -3.74) hours).
DISCUSSION: Telerehabilitation in the total hip replacement population incurred similar costs and yielded similar effects to traditional in-person care. Telerehabilitation significantly reduced the time burden for patients and carers. These findings are valuable for healthcare providers seeking to implement accessible patient-centred rehabilitation services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of passive monitoring technology for seniors.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Advances such as passive monitoring technology (PMT), which provides holistic supervision of chronically ill and elderly patients, enable and support improved monitoring and observation, thus empowering the growing population of older adults to live more independently while lowering health care expenses.
AIMS: This study develops a conceptual model to estimate the potential savings associated with PMT.
METHODS: We first develop a conceptual model to identify the main cost variables associated with independent living, focusing on three pathways: (1) PMT, (2) independent living supported by the current standard of care, and (3) facility-based care. We examined the impact on three outcomes [i.e., health care costs, institutional costs, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL)] along each of the three care pathways (i.e., PMT, independent living supported by the standard of care, and facility-based care) and developed a cost-benefit model to calculate the net costs and benefits associated with each care pathway.
RESULTS: The cost-benefit model showed savings between approximately $425 per-member per-month (PMPM) for those using PMT compared to those on the standard of care pathway. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that a 5% increase in nursing home utilization generates cost savings of more than 30% PMPM.
DISCUSSION: The total projected cost savings for individuals on the PMT arm are projected to be more than $425 PMPM, with annual savings of $5069 per-person per-year, and over $5.1 million for a target population of 1000 individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost calculations in our cost-benefit simulation model clearly demonstrate the value of PMT and show the potential value to payers and integrated delivery systems in offering PMT to individuals who are likely to benefit the most from the services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health Care Cost Analyses for Exploring Cost Savings Opportunities in Older Patients: Longitudinal Retrospective Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Half of Medicare reimbursement goes toward caring for the top 5% of the most expensive patients. However, little is known about these patients prior to reaching the top or how their costs change annually. To address these gaps, we analyzed patient flow and associated health care cost trends over 5 years.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost of health care utilization in older patients by analyzing changes in their long-term expenditures.
METHODS: This was a retrospective, longitudinal, multicenter study to evaluate health care costs of 2643 older patients from 2011 to 2015. All patients had at least one episode of home health care during the study period and used a personal emergency response service (PERS) at home for any length of time during the observation period. We segmented all patients into top (5%), middle (6%-50%), and bottom (51%-100%) segments by their annual expenditures and built cost pyramids based thereon. The longitudinal health care expenditure trends of the complete study population and each segment were assessed by linear regression models. Patient flows throughout the segments of the cost acuity pyramids from year to year were modeled by Markov chains.
RESULTS: Total health care costs of the study population nearly doubled from US $17.7M in 2011 to US $33.0M in 2015 with an expected annual cost increase of US $3.6M (P=.003). This growth was primarily driven by a significantly higher cost increases in the middle segment (US $2.3M, P=.003). The expected annual cost increases in the top and bottom segments were US $1.2M (P=.008) and US $0.1M (P=.004), respectively. Patient and cost flow analyses showed that 18% of patients moved up the cost acuity pyramid yearly, and their costs increased by 672%. This was in contrast to 22% of patients that moved down with a cost decrease of 86%. The remaining 60% of patients stayed in the same segment from year to year, though their costs also increased by 18%.
CONCLUSIONS: Although many health care organizations target intensive and costly interventions to their most expensive patients, this analysis unveiled potential cost savings opportunities by managing the patients in the lower cost segments that are at risk of moving up the cost acuity pyramid. To achieve this, data analytics integrating longitudinal data from electronic health records and home monitoring devices may help health care organizations optimize resources by enabling clinicians to proactively manage patients in their home or community environments beyond institutional settings and 30- and 60-day telehealth services.
Label Included: 0

Title: New organisation for follow-up and assessment of treatment efficacy in sleep apnoea.
Abstract: Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a highly prevalent disease, and there is an increased demand for OSA diagnosis and treatment. However, resources are limited compared with the growing needs for OSA diagnosis and management, and alternative strategies need to be developed to optimise the OSA clinical pathway. In this review, we propose a management strategy for OSA, and in general for sleep-disordered breathing, to be implemented from diagnosis to follow-up. For this purpose, the best current options seem to be: 1) networking at different levels of care, from primary physicians to specialised sleep laboratories; and 2) use of telemedicine. Telemedicine can contribute to the improved cost-effectiveness of OSA management during both the diagnostic and therapeutic phases. However, although the technology is already in place and different commercial platforms are in use, it is still unclear how to use telemedicine effectively in the sleep field. Application of telemedicine for titration of positive airway pressure treatment, follow-up to improve compliance to treatment through early identification and solution of problems, and teleconsultation all appear to be promising areas for improved OSA management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Real-World Clinical and Economic Outcomes and the Role of Bevacizumab in Patients With Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer With Liver Metastases.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Liver metastases are associated with poor outcomes in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (aNSCLC). Nevertheless, the vasculature in the liver microenvironment may be conducive to the use of antiangiogenesis inhibitors to potentially improve outcomes. Limited real-world clinical and economic data are currently available for this patient subpopulation.
METHODS: Two retrospective cohort analyses were conducted using data from an electronic health record (n = 14,209) and a claims database (n = 9,017). Patients with aNSCLC with and without liver metastases were identified in each database. Patients with baseline liver metastases in the electronic health record database were further categorized into two subgroups-those who had or had not received bevacizumab-containing regimens. Multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to adjust for baseline characteristics to evaluate the effect of treatment of bevacizumab.
RESULTS: Liver metastases were associated with significantly poorer survival (median overall survival, 6.3 months v 10.1 months) and higher costs and health care resource utilization-total per-patient-per-month costs of $27,589 versus $19,607. Cost differences were primarily driven by inpatient costs, including a two-fold increase in hospitalizations and a 1.7-fold higher mean length of stay. Treatment with bevacizumab was associated with improved survival. Whereas overall survival improved in patients with and without baseline liver metastases who received bevacizumab, the relative survival benefit was greater in patients with liver metastases (hazard ratio, 0.63 [95% CI, 0.50 to 0.81] v hazard ratio, 0.80 [95% CI, 0.74 to 0.86]).
CONCLUSION: Patients with aNSCLC with liver metastases have poorer survival and a higher cost and health care resource utilization burden. Bevacizumab was associated with a survival benefit in patients with aNSCLC with liver metastases.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of a home-based programme to reduce concerns about falls in frail, independently-living older people.
Abstract: Background: Concerns about falls, or fear of falling, are frequently reported by older people and can have serious consequences. Aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a home-based, cognitive behavioral programme for independently-living, frail older people in comparison with usual care from a societal perspective. Methods: This economic evaluation was embedded in a randomized-controlled trial with a follow-up of 12-months. In the trial 389 people aged 70 years or older were allocated to usual care (n = 195) or the intervention group (n = 194). The intervention group received a home-based, cognitive behavioral programme. Main outcome measures were concerns about falls and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs). Results: Average total costs per participant in the usual care group were 8,094 Euros and 7,890 Euros for participants in the intervention group. The intervention group showed a significant decrease in concerns about falls and a non-significant increase in QALYS in comparison with the usual care group. The probability that the intervention was cost-effective was 75% at a willingness to pay of 20,000 Euros per QALY. Discussion: The programme is likely to be cost-effective, and therefore a useful addition to current geriatric care, particularly for those persons who are not able or willing to attend group programmes. Trial registration: NCT01358032.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical and cost-effectiveness of guided internet-based interventions in the indicated prevention of depression in green professions (PROD-A): study protocol of a 36-month follow-up pragmatic randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People in green professions are exposed to a variety of risk factors, which could possibly enhance the development of depression. Amongst possible prevention approaches, internet- and mobile-based interventions (IMIs) have been shown to be effective and scalable. However, little is known about the effectiveness in green professions. The aim of the present study is to examine the (cost-)effectiveness of a tailored IMI program for reducing depressive symptoms and preventing the onset of clinical depression compared to enhanced treatment as usual (TAU+).
METHODS: A pragmatic randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted to evaluate a tailored and therapeutically guided preventive IMI program in comparison to TAU+ with follow-ups at post-treatment (9 weeks), 6-, 12-, 24-, and 36-months. Entrepreneurs in green professions, collaborating spouses, family members and pensioners (N = 360) with sufficient insurance status and at least subthreshold depression (PHQ-9 ≥ 5) are eligible for inclusion. Primary outcome is depressive symptom severity (QIDS-SR16). Secondary outcomes include incidence of depression (QIDS-SR16), quality of life (AQoL-8D) and negative treatment effects (INEP). A health-economic evaluation will be conducted from a societal perspective. The IMI program is provided by psychologists of an external service company and consists of six guided IMIs (6-8 modules, duration: 6-8 weeks) targeting different symptoms (depressive mood, depressive mood with comorbid diabetes, perceived stress, insomnia, panic and agoraphobic symptoms or harmful alcohol use). Intervention choice depends on a screening of participants' symptoms and individual preferences. The intervention phase is followed by a 12-months consolidating phase with monthly contact to the e-coach.
DISCUSSION: This is the first pragmatic RCT investigating long-term effectiveness of a tailored guided IMI program for depression prevention in green professions. The present trial builds on a large-scale strategy for depression prevention in green professions. The intended implementation of the IMI program with a nationwide rollout has the potential to reduce overall depression burden and associated health care costs in case of given effectiveness.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trial Registration: DRKS00014000 . Registered on 09 April 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health coaching to improve self-care of informal caregivers of adults with chronic heart failure - iCare4Me: Study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Persons with chronic heart failure are living longer. These patients typically live in the community and are cared for at home by informal caregivers. These caregivers are an understudied and stressed group.
METHODS: We are conducting a two-arm, randomized controlled trial of 250 caregivers of persons with chronic heart failure to evaluate the efficacy of a health coaching intervention. A consecutive sample of participants is being enrolled from both clinic and hospital settings at a single institution affiliated with a large medical center in the northeastern US. Both the intervention and control groups receive tablets programmed to provide standardized health information. In addition, the intervention group receives 10 live coaching sessions delivered virtually by health coaches using the tablets. The intervention is evaluated at 6-months, with self-care as the primary outcome. Cost-effectiveness of the intervention is evaluated at 12-months. We are also enrolling heart failure patients (dyads) whenever possible to explore the effect of caregiver outcomes (self-care, stress, coping, health status) on heart failure patient outcomes (number of hospitalizations and days in the hospital) at 12-months.
DISCUSSION: We expect the proposed study to require 5 years for completion. If shown to be efficacious and cost-effective, our virtual health coaching intervention can easily be scaled to. support millions of caregivers worldwide.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile health technology (WeChat) for the hierarchical management of community hypertension: protocol for a cluster randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: PURPOSE: The prevalence of hypertension continues to increase worldwide, raising an urgent need for novel and efficient methods for controlling hypertension. As the Internet and smartphones become more popular, their multiple functions and large user base make mobile health (mHealth) technology a potential tool for hypertension management. We aim to evaluate the use of mHealth technology to improve blood pressure and self-management behavior in people with hypertension and prehypertension.
INTERVENTION: The mHealth intervention measures include health education, behavior promotion, group chatting and long-term blood pressure monitoring hierarchically delivered via WeChat application among 242 participants. The frequency, intensity and content of the hierarchical intervention are determined based on the cardiovascular risk stratification of the intervention subjects.
STUDY DESIGN: This cluster randomized controlled trial was carried out in two subdistricts in Guangzhou, China, among 492 smartphone users with hypertension or prehypertension, from August 2018 to September 2019. The intervention group received hierarchical intervention through WeChat for six months, while the control group received usual care in the community healthcare center during this period. Indicators are measured at three time points for each group, and a telephone follow-up is planned for two years after the intervention. The primary outcome is systolic blood pressure; secondary outcomes include BMI, CPAT score, improvements in behavior and diet, score of self-efficacy and self-management. Feasibility is evaluated by intervention participation. The cost-effectiveness is evaluated by ICER.
CONCLUSION: This study aims to evaluate the effect of the WeChat-based hierarchical management mode on improving blood pressure and self-management behavior in population with hypertension and prehypertension, based on health-related knowledge, self-efficacy and medication adherence. If successful, the management mode will serve as a feasible, economical and efficient hypertension management mode suitable for the community.Clinical trial identifier: ChiCTR1900023002.
Label Included: 0

Title: TV-based assistive integrated service to support European adults living with mild dementia or mild cognitive impairment (TV-AssistDem): study protocol for a multicentre randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment and mild dementia progressively compromise the ability of people to live independently and can have a negative impact on their quality of life. Within the current European Active and Assisted Living programme (AAL), project TV-AssistDem has been developed to deliver a TV-based platform service to support patients with mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia and provide relief to their caregivers. The application is intended to be used daily at home, mainly by the participants themselves, with the help of their informal caregivers. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of TV-AssistDem to improve quality of life in people with mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia.
METHODS: This is a 12-month European multicentre randomized controlled trial which will be performed in two countries: Spain and Romania. Two hundred and forty older adults will be recruited using identical inclusion/exclusion criteria. The primary outcome will be the change from baseline of TV-AssistDem on patient quality of life at 12 months. The secondary outcomes will be the changes from baseline of: 1) informal caregiver quality of life, 2) informal caregiver burden, 3) patient treatment adherence, 4) patient treatment compliance, 5) patient functional status, and 6) healthcare cost-effectiveness at 12 months. Patients in the intervention group will have access to an interactive platform which offers remote assistive services through a device connected to the television. The core services of the platform are: 1) Calendar and reminders, 2) Health monitoring and data transmission to a health server and 3) Videoconference; service-oriented applications are: 4) Cognitive stimulation; 5) Reminiscences; and 6) Patient and caregiver healthcare education. The analysis will be made following an intention-to-treat procedure. Linear and Generalized Mixed Model analysis will be performed.
DISCUSSION: We hypothesize that the regular use of TV-AssistDem will result in an improvement in patient quality of life. The uniqueness of this home TV-based intervention lies on its widespread accessibility and its integrative approach to quality of life in people with mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia and their informal caregivers. However, several anticipated challenges will need to be faced: poor engagement and connectivity problems.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT03653234 , Date of registration: 31 August 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Literature on Wearable Technology for Connected Health: Scoping Review of Research Trends, Advances, and Barriers.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Wearable sensing and information and communication technologies are key enablers driving the transformation of health care delivery toward a new model of connected health (CH) care. The advances in wearable technologies in the last decade are evidenced in a plethora of original articles, patent documentation, and focused systematic reviews. Although technological innovations continuously respond to emerging challenges and technology availability further supports the evolution of CH solutions, the widespread adoption of wearables remains hindered.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to scope the scientific literature in the field of pervasive wearable health monitoring in the time interval from January 2010 to February 2019 with respect to four important pillars: technology, safety and security, prescriptive insight, and user-related concerns. The purpose of this study was multifold: identification of (1) trends and milestones that have driven research in wearable technology in the last decade, (2) concerns and barriers from technology and user perspective, and (3) trends in the research literature addressing these issues.
METHODS: This study followed the scoping review methodology to identify and process the available literature. As the scope surpasses the possibilities of manual search, we relied on the natural language processing tool kit to ensure an efficient and exhaustive search of the literature corpus in three large digital libraries: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, PubMed, and Springer. The search was based on the keywords and properties to be found in articles using the search engines of the digital libraries.
RESULTS: The annual number of publications in all segments of research on wearable technology shows an increasing trend from 2010 to February 2019. The technology-related topics dominated in the number of contributions, followed by research on information delivery, safety, and security, whereas user-related concerns were the topic least addressed. The literature corpus evidences milestones in sensor technology (miniaturization and placement), communication architectures and fifth generation (5G) cellular network technology, data analytics, and evolution of cloud and edge computing architectures. The research lag in battery technology makes energy efficiency a relevant consideration in the design of both sensors and network architectures with computational offloading. The most addressed user-related concerns were (technology) acceptance and privacy, whereas research gaps indicate that more efforts should be invested into formalizing clear use cases with timely and valuable feedback and prescriptive recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms that applications of wearable technology in the CH domain are becoming mature and established as a scientific domain. The current research should bring progress to sustainable delivery of valuable recommendations, enforcement of privacy by design, energy-efficient pervasive sensing, seamless monitoring, and low-latency 5G communications. To complement technology achievements, future work involving all stakeholders providing research evidence on improved care pathways and cost-effectiveness of the CH model is needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: International feasibility trial on the use of an interactive mobile health platform for cardiac rehabilitation: protocol of the Diversity 1 study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The implementation of home-based cardiac rehabilitation has demonstrated potential to increase patient participation, but the content and the delivering of the programmes varies across countries. The objective of this study is to investigate whether an Australian-validated mobile health (mHealth) platform for cardiac rehabilitation will be accepted and adopted irrespectively from the existing organisational and contextual factors in five different European countries.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This international multicentre feasibility study will use surveys, preliminary observations and analysis to evaluate the use and the user's perceptions (satisfaction) of a validated mHealth platform in different contextual settings.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study protocol has been approved by the Australian research organisation CSIRO and the respective ethical committees of the European sites. The dissemination of this trial will serve as a ground for the further implementation of an international large randomised controlled trial which will contribute to an effective global introduction of mHealth into daily clinical practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Protocol for a Noninferiority Comparative Effectiveness Trial of Home-Based Palliative Care (HomePal).
Abstract: Introduction: As health care systems strive to meet the growing needs of seriously ill patients with high symptom burden and functional limitations, they need evidence about how best to deliver home-based palliative care (HBPC). We compare a standard HBPC model that includes routine home visits by nurses and prescribing clinicians with a tech-supported model that aims to promote timely interprofessional team coordination using video consultation with the prescribing clinician while the nurse is in the patient's home. We hypothesize that tech-supported HBPC will be no worse compared with standard HBPC. Methods: This study is a pragmatic, cluster randomized noninferiority trial conducted across 14 Kaiser Permanente sites in Southern California and the Pacific Northwest. Registered nurses (n = 102) were randomized to the two models so that approximately half of the participating patient-caregiver dyads will be in each study arm. Adult English or Spanish-speaking patients (estimate 10,000) with any serious illness and a survival prognosis of 1-2 years and their caregivers (estimate 4800) are being recruited to the HomePal study over ∼2.5 years. The primary patient outcomes are symptom improvement at one month and days spent at home. The primary caregiver outcome is perception of preparedness for caregiving. Study Implementation-Challenges and Contributions: During implementation we had to balance the rigors of conducting a clinical trial with pragmatic realities to ensure responsiveness to culture, structures, workforce, workflows of existing programs across multiple sites, and emerging policy and regulatory changes. We built close partnerships with stakeholders across multiple representative groups to define the comparators, prioritize and refine measures and study conduct, and optimize rigor in our analytical approaches. We have also incorporated extensive fidelity monitoring, mixed-method implementation evaluations, and early planning for dissemination to anticipate and address challenges longitudinally. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT#03694431.
Label Included: 0

Title: Access to Specialty Services: Opportunities for Expansion of Telemedicine to Support Correctional Health Care in Colorado.
Abstract: Introduction:The United States has the largest correctional population in the world and many inmates lack access to timely health care. Studies have shown that telemedicine could improve the situation in a practical and cost-effective fashion. We aimed to evaluate currently established services as well as any potential need for expansion of telemedicine within correctional settings in Colorado.Methods:We designed a prospective survey-based pilot study using mixed methods research techniques.Results:Colorado has 50 county jails, 19 prisons, and 3 private prison facilities. Of these, 46 correctional facilities (45 jails and the state prison) were contacted. Twenty responded (19 jails and the prison) representing 43.5% response rate. Only 10% did not have on-site health care providers available at all, 31.6% were already using telemedicine for some of their needs, 52.9% were "very interested," 5.9% "somewhat interested," 17.6% "not so interested," and 23.5% were "not at all interested" in further information regarding telemedicine services.Discussion:Our study as well as current literature suggest that telemedicine could serve to fill in certain gaps of care within correctional populations, especially for over-represented conditions (i.e., chronic infectious diseases, such as HIV and hepatitis C virus, substance use disorders, or mental health disorders).Conclusions:There is enthusiasm but also certain amount of skepticism among Colorado's jail administrators with respect to the implementation, or even the cost-effectiveness potential of telemedicine. Telemedicine in these settings may require individualized approach and enough creative flexibility to allow for nimble adjustments based on the constraints and needs of individual institutions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Organisational models of health services for children and adolescents in out-of-home care: Health technology assessment.
Abstract: AIM: Decades of research confirm that children and adolescents in out-of-home care (foster family, residential care) have much greater health care needs than their peers. A systematic literature review was conducted to evaluate organisational health care models for this vulnerable group.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was undertaken of the following databases: Academic Search Elite, CENTRAL, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Cinahl, DARE, ERIC, HTA, PsycInfo, Psychology and Behavioural Sciences Collection, PubMed, SocIndex. Randomised and non-randomised controlled trials were to be included. Two pairs of reviewers independently assessed abstracts of the identified published papers. Abstracts meeting the inclusion criteria were ordered in full text. Each article was reviewed independently, by pairs of reviewers. A joint assessment was made based on the inclusion criteria and relevance. Cases of disagreement were resolved by consensus discussion.
RESULTS: No study with low or medium risk of bias was identified.
CONCLUSION: In the absence of studies of acceptable quality, it is not possible to assess the impact of organisational models intended to ensure adequate health and dental care for children and adolescents in out-of-home care. Therefore, well-designed follow-up studies should be conducted following the implementation of such models.
Label Included: 0

Title: Standardizing Germany's Electronic Disease Management Program for Bronchial Asthma.
Abstract: Disease management programs coordinate and manage treatment between physicians and across sectors of the healthcare system. The aim is to reduce existing care deficits (overuse, underuse and misuse) and thus improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of care. To facilitate the treatment of chronic diseases such as asthma, it is important to continuously document a patient's medical history. For this purpose, it is necessary to be able to integrate and exchange data from and between multiple different information systems. Aiming to ensure interoperability across electronic documentation systems, this paper proposes the standardization of the KBV's (National Association of Statutory Health Insurance in Germany) specification for the electronic Disease Management Program (eDMP) for bronchial asthma. Therefore, international standards like SNOMED CT, LOINC and UCUM were chosen to encode clinical information, while evaluating their suitability with the scoring system ISO/PRF TR 21564. The resulting analysis showed that most of the terms had either a complete or partial equivalent term in one of the terminology systems. Therefore, future implementations of the eDMP for bronchial asthma that utilize standard terminologies could benefit from data integration from different sources like electronic health records and reduce redundancies in data capture and storage.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparison of Supervised Exercise and Home Exercise After Ankle Fracture.
Abstract: Ankle fractures are common fractures of the lower extremities that have an incidence rate of 101 fractures per 100.000 person-years. It is not clear which rehabilitation intervention should be performed after an ankle fracture. The aims of this study are to compare the effectiveness of a supervised exercise program with that of a home exercise program and to determine and compare the costs of these programs. A supervised exercise program and a home exercise program were performed for 8 weeks. The supervised exercise group consisted of 35 patients (mean age 39.23 years), and the home exercise group consisted of 73 patients (mean age 41.78 years). The average follow-up was 27.86 ± 9.88 months. Demographic information, injury details, type and classification of fracture, pain severity, and ankle range of motion were recorded. The clinical outcomes were determined by using the Pain Disability Index, the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society Ankle-Hindfoot Score, and the Short-Form 36 Health Survey. Surgical and rehabilitation satisfaction was evaluated with the use of a numeric scale. American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society Ankle-Hindfoot Scores were statistically significantly higher in the home exercise group (p = .036), and rehabilitation satisfaction of the supervised exercise group was statistically significantly better (p = .047). The total rehabilitation crude cost of a patient in the supervised exercise group is 1113.63 Turkish lira (310.25 U.S. dollars) versus 182.31 Turkish lira (50.79 U.S. dollars) in the home exercise group. Considering that the crude cost of the home exercise program is very low and clinical outcomes are satisfactory, we recommend that patients with surgically treated isolated ankle fractures be followed up with a postoperative home exercise program.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of varenicline and nicotine replacement therapy in people with and without general practitioner-recorded dementia: retrospective cohort study of routine electronic medical records.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Our primary objective was to estimate smoking prevalence and prescribing rates of varenicline and nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) in people with and without general practitioner (GP)-recorded dementia. Our secondary objective was to assess and compare quit rates of smokers with versus without GP-recorded dementia who were prescribed varenicline or NRT for smoking cessation.
DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study based on the analysis of electronic medical records within the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (2007-2015).
SETTING: 683 general practices in England.
PARTICIPANTS: People with and without GP-recorded dementia, aged 18 years and have a code indicating that they are a current smoker.
INTERVENTION: Index prescription of varenicline or NRT (from 1 September 2006).
OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes were smoking prevalence and prescribing rates of varenicline and NRT (2007-2015). The secondary outcome was smoking cessation at 2 years.
RESULTS: Age and sex-standardised prevalence of smoking was slightly higher in people with GP-recorded dementia than in those without. There were 235 314 people aged 18 years and above prescribed NRT or varenicline. Among smokers with GP-recorded dementia (N=447), 409 were prescribed NRT and 38 varenicline. Smokers with GP-recorded dementia were 74% less likely (95% CI 64% to 82%) to be prescribed varenicline than NRT, compared with smokers without GP-recorded dementia. Compared with people without GP-recorded dementia, people with GP-recorded dementia had consistently lower prescribing rates of varenicline from 2007 to 2015. Two years after prescription, there was no clear evidence for a difference in the likelihood of smoking cessation after prescription of these medications between individuals with and without dementia (OR 1.0, 95% CI 0.8 to 1.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Between 2007 and 2015, people with GP-recorded dementia were less likely to be prescribed varenicline than those without dementia. Quit rates following prescription of either NRT or varenicline were similar in those with and without dementia.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development of the Depist'HTA® score to predict a rise in blood pressure during a self-testing session: PREDIC-HTA bakery survey.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: The use of an automatic blood pressure monitor with the help of a protocol given by an e-health application allows self-testing of blood pressure without the help of a health professional.
OBJECTIVE: Conduct a screening campaign for high blood pressure in artisanal bakeries in France and develop a score to predict the observation of an increase in blood pressure during self-testing.
METHOD: Cross-sectional survey conducted in mainland France in 2018 using 1000 screening kits including a tablet, Predic'HTA® application and a connected electronic blood pressure monitor (BP Track, IHealth). Available for one week in 14,000 artisanal bakeries, in turn. Used in the workplace, on a voluntary basis, by bakery employees. Completion of a health questionnaire with an estimate of excessive salt consumption. Self-screening of 3 blood pressure measurements with centralization of data on a secure database for epidemiological analysis. The average of the last 2 measurements characterizes each subject.
RESULTS: Full use of Predic'HTA® was obtained in 62.4% of users or 7502 subjects (44% under 35 years of age, 44% 35 to 54 years of age, 12% 55 years of age and over). Antihypertensive treatment was followed by 27% of those aged 55 and over and 1% of those under 35. Among untreated subjects, the prevalence of BP>140/90 was 21.1%, increasing with age (13%, 27%, 33%) and higher among men (27.2%) than among women (15.4%). With the parameters age, sex, weight, IMC, family history of high blood pressure, excessive salt consumption, previous intake of an antihypertensive drug, a score is calculated to associate a probability of having an BP >120/80 with self-screening. The ROC curve shows an AUC at 0.723 with a PPV at 91% and a NPV at 41%. The depist'HTA® score is available at www.depisthta.net CONCLUSION: Self-testing of blood pressure is possible with an electronic blood pressure monitor if a dedicated appliance is used at the same time. The development of the prediction score depist'HTA® for a blood pressure level>120/80 would be useful to target subjects who need to self-test their blood pressure in the short term.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparison of telemedicine versus in-person visits for persons with multiple sclerosis: A randomized crossover study of feasibility, cost, and satisfaction.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine, the remote delivery of health care services, increases access to care for patients with mobility or geographic limitations. Virtual house calls (VHCs) are one type of telemedicine in which clinical visits are conducted remotely using an audio-visual connection with the patient at home. Use of VHCs is more established in other neurologic disorders but is only recently being formally evaluated in multiple sclerosis (MS). This randomized crossover study systematically assessed VHCs compared with in-clinic visits in persons with MS.
METHODS: Recruitment occurred in a university based MS clinic. Each subject completed one VHC and one in-clinic follow-up visit. A 1:1 randomization determined whether the VHC or in-clinic follow-up visit occurred first. Baseline surveys included demographics and MS history; post-visit surveys elicited subject responses regarding each visit type to assess feasibility, satisfaction, and cost differences. Outcomes were compared using t-tests for continuous variables and Fisher's exact test for proportions.
RESULTS: Thirty-six participants completed both study visits and both post-visit surveys. VHC feasibility was demonstrated by a lack of statistically significant difference in the number of completed VHCs as compared with in-clinic visits. VHCs provided both cost and time savings to participants. The majority of participants reported that they would recommend telemedicine visits to others (97.1%) and rated it easy to connect via telemedicine (94.3%). In qualitative comments, participants expressed appreciation for VHCs due to convenience and similarity to in-clinic visits.
CONCLUSIONS: VHCs were found to be feasible, cost-effective, and appealing to persons with MS and physicians, supporting their utility as a care delivery method for MS.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of a targeted monitoring on data-quality and data-management workload of randomized controlled trials: A prospective comparative study.
Abstract: AIMS: Monitoring risk-based approaches in clinical trials are encouraged by regulatory guidance. However, the impact of a targeted source data verification (SDV) on data-management (DM) workload and on final data quality needs to be addressed.
METHODS: MONITORING was a prospective study aiming at comparing full SDV (100% of data verified for all patients) and targeted SDV (only key data verified for all patients) followed by the same DM program (detecting missing data and checking consistency) on final data quality, global workload and staffing costs.
RESULTS: In all, 137 008 data including 18 124 key data were collected for 126 patients from 6 clinical trials. Compared to the final database obtained using the full SDV monitoring process, the final database obtained using the targeted SDV monitoring process had a residual error rate of 1.47% (95% confidence interval, 1.41-1.53%) on overall data and 0.78% (95% confidence interval, 0.65-0.91%) on key data. There were nearly 4 times more queries per study with targeted SDV than with full SDV (mean ± standard deviation: 132 ± 101 vs 34 ± 26; P = .03). For a handling time of 15 minutes per query, the global workload of the targeted SDV monitoring strategy remained below that of the full SDV monitoring strategy. From 25 minutes per query it was above, increasing progressively to represent a 50% increase for 45 minutes per query.
CONCLUSION: Targeted SDV monitoring is accompanied by increased workload for DM, which allows to obtain a small proportion of remaining errors on key data (<1%), but may substantially increase trial costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Fast-track thrombolysis protocol: A single-session approach for acute iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Catheter-directed thrombolysis in the treatment of acute iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis (IFDVT) often requires more than one interventional session to yield successful outcomes. Catheter-directed thrombolysis is generally expensive, requiring prolonged hospital stay that may be associated with increased local and systemic hemorrhagic complications. We developed the fast-track thrombolysis protocol (FTTP) to address these issues. The goal of FTTP is to restore patency during the initial session of thrombolysis, thereby minimizing costs and complications associated with prolonged thrombolysis.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 38 patients treated for acute IFDVT using FTTP at our institution from January 2014 to February 2019 was performed. The protocol includes periadventitial injection of lidocaine at the venipuncture site under ultrasound guidance, contrast venography of the entire target segment, pharmacomechanical rheolytic thrombectomy of the occluded venous segment, tissue plasminogen activator infusion along the occluded segment, balloon maceration of the thrombus, and, if indicated, venous stent placement in areas of significant (≥50%) stenosis refractory to thrombolysis and balloon angioplasty. Once the thrombus was cleared, patients were prescribed oral antithrombotic therapy.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight primary FTTPs (45 total interventions) were performed in 38 patients. The median age was 66 years (range, 39-93 years); 60.5% were female. Initial venous access was most often obtained through the popliteal vein, followed by the femoral and great saphenous veins. The mean operative time was 122 minutes (range, 59-249 minutes), and the median volume of tissue plasminogen activator infused was 10 mg (range, 4-20 mg). The median cost per procedure, including devices and medication, was $5374.45. Median postoperative length of stay was 1 day (range, 1-45 days). Successful single-session FTTP, as determined by completion venography, was accomplished in 81.5% (n = 31/38) of cases. The remaining seven cases (18.5%) required one additional session. Of the 38 patients, 30 (79%) required iliac vein stenting. Periprocedural complications consisted of one patient with retroperitoneal hemorrhage that was managed conservatively. No patients experienced rethrombosis within 30 days of FTTP. During the 5-year study period, there were no cases of pulmonary embolism, significant local or systemic hemorrhage, limb loss, or mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: FTTP, as presented herein, appears to be a safe, effective, and cost-effective technique in the resolution of acute IFDVT.
Label Included: 0

Title: Compliance to oral nutritional supplementation decreases the risk of hospitalisation in malnourished older adults without extra health care cost: Prospective observational cohort study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND & AIMS: Malnutrition affects 5-10% of elderly people living in the community. A few studies suggest that nutritional intervention may reduce health care costs. The present study included malnourished elderly patients living at home. It aimed to compare health care costs between patients that were prescribed ONS by their general practitioner and those who were not, and to assess the effect of ONS prescription on the risk of hospitalisation.
METHODS: This prospective multicentre observational study included malnourished patients ≥70 years old who lived at home. Patients were defined as malnourished if they presented with one or more of the following criteria: weight loss ≥5% in 1 month, weight loss ≥10% in 6 months, BMI <21 kg/m2, albuminemia <35 g/L or Short-Form MNA ≤ 7. Their general practitioners prescribed an ONS, or not, according to their usual practice. Health care costs were recorded during a 6-month period. Other collected data were diseases, disability, self-perception of current health status, quality of life (QoL), nutritional status, appetite and compliance to ONS. A propensity score method was used to compare costs and risk of hospitalisation to adjust for potential confounding factors and control for selection bias.
RESULTS: We analysed 191 patients. At baseline, the 133 patients (70%) who were prescribed ONS were more disabled (p < 0.001) and had poorer perception of their health (p = 0.02), lower QoL (p = 0.04) and lower appetite (p < 0.001) than the 58 patients (30%) who were not prescribed ONS. At 6 months, appetite had improved more in the ONS prescription group (p = 0.001). Weight change was not different between groups. Patients prescribed ONS were more frequently hospitalised (OR 2.518, 95% CI: [1.088; 5.829] hosp; p = 0.03). Analyses of adjusted populations revealed no differences in health care costs between groups. In the ONS prescription group, we identified that health care costs were lower (p = 0.042) in patients with an energy intake from ONS ≥ 500 kcal/d (1389 ± 264 €) vs. < 500 kcal/d (3502 ± 839 €). The risk of hospitalisation was reduced 3 and 5 times when the intake from ONS was ≥30 g of protein/day or ≥500 kcal/d, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: ONS prescription in malnourished elderly patients generated no extra heath care cost. High energy and protein intake from ONS was associated with a reduced risk of hospitalisation and health care costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a Technology-Based Peer-Support Intervention Program for Preventing Postnatal Depression (Part 1): Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The frenzy of postbirth events often takes a toll on mothers' mental well-being, leaving them susceptible to postpartum psychological disorders such as postnatal depression (PND). Social support has been found to be effective in restoring the emotional well-being of new mothers. Therefore, mothers need to be supported during the crucial postpartum period to buffer the negative after effects of childbirth and to promote healthier maternal well-being.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of a technology-based peer-support intervention program (PIP) on maternal outcomes during the early postpartum period.
METHODS: A randomized, parallel-armed controlled trial was conducted. The study recruited 138 mothers (69 in intervention group, 69 in control group) at risk of PND from a tertiary hospital in Singapore. To support these mothers, 20 peer volunteers were recruited by word of mouth and trained by a psychiatrist in social support skills before the intervention commenced. The 4-week-long intervention included a weekly follow-up with a peer volunteer through phone calls or text messages. The intervention group received peer support in addition to the standard care offered by the hospital. The control group only received postnatal standard care. Maternal outcomes (PND, postnatal anxiety [PNA], loneliness, and perceived social support) were measured with reliable and valid instruments. Data were collected immediately postpartum, at 1 month postpartum and at 3 months postpartum. The general linear model was used to compare the groups for postpartum percentage changes in the outcome variables at first and third months, and the linear mixed model was used to compare the trend over the study period.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant difference in Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale scores (d=-2.11; 95% CI -4.0 to -0.3; P=.03) between the intervention and control groups at 3 months postpartum after adjusting for covariates. The intervention group had a significant change over time compared with the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: The technology-based PIP was found to be effective in reducing the risk of PND among new mothers and showed a generally positive trend in reducing PNA and loneliness and increasing perceived social support. This study highlights the importance of training paraprofessionals to provide needed support for new mothers postpartum. A further long-term evaluation of the PIP on maternal and family outcomes and its cost-effectiveness is needed to inform clinical practices.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Registry ISRCTN14864807; https://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN14864807.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR2-10.2196/resprot.9416.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of Digital Education on Communication Skills Among Medical Students: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Effective communication skills are essential in diagnosis and treatment processes and in building the doctor-patient relationship.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to evaluate the effectiveness of digital education in medical students for communication skills development. Broadly, we assessed whether digital education could improve the quality of future doctors' communication skills.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review and searched seven electronic databases and two trial registries for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and cluster RCTs (cRCTs) published between January 1990 and September 2018. Two reviewers independently screened the citations, extracted data from the included studies, and assessed the risk of bias. We also assessed the quality of evidence using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations assessment (GRADE).
RESULTS: We included 12 studies with 2101 medical students, of which 10 were RCTs and two were cRCTs. The digital education included online modules, virtual patient simulations, and video-assisted oral feedback. The control groups included didactic lectures, oral feedback, standard curriculum, role play, and no intervention as well as less interactive forms of digital education. The overall risk of bias was high, and the quality of evidence ranged from moderate to very low. For skills outcome, meta-analysis of three studies comparing digital education to traditional learning showed no statistically significant difference in postintervention skills scores between the groups (standardized mean difference [SMD]=-0.19; 95% CI -0.9 to 0.52; I2=86%, N=3 studies [304 students]; small effect size; low-quality evidence). Similarly, a meta-analysis of four studies comparing the effectiveness of blended digital education (ie, online or offline digital education plus traditional learning) and traditional learning showed no statistically significant difference in postintervention skills between the groups (SMD=0.15; 95% CI -0.26 to 0.56; I2=86%; N=4 studies [762 students]; small effect size; low-quality evidence). The additional meta-analysis of four studies comparing more interactive and less interactive forms of digital education also showed little or no difference in postintervention skills scores between the two groups (SMD=0.12; 95% CI: -0.09 to 0.33; I2=40%; N=4 studies [893 students]; small effect size; moderate-quality evidence). For knowledge outcome, two studies comparing the effectiveness of blended online digital education and traditional learning reported no difference in postintervention knowledge scores between the groups (SMD=0.18; 95% CI: -0.2 to 0.55; I2=61%; N=2 studies [292 students]; small effect size; low-quality evidence). The findings on attitudes, satisfaction, and patient-related outcomes were limited or mixed. None of the included studies reported adverse outcomes or economic evaluation of the interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: We found low-quality evidence showing that digital education is as effective as traditional learning in medical students' communication skills training. Blended digital education seems to be at least as effective as and potentially more effective than traditional learning for communication skills and knowledge. We also found no difference in postintervention skills between more and less interactive forms of digital education. There is a need for further research to evaluate the effectiveness of other forms of digital education such as virtual reality, serious gaming, and mobile learning on medical students' attitude, satisfaction, and patient-related outcomes as well as the adverse effects and cost-effectiveness of digital education.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of home-based carer-assisted in comparison to hospital-based therapist-delivered therapy for people with stroke: A randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The benefits of engaging informal carers or family in the delivery of therapy intervention for people with stroke have not been well researched.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of a home-based carer-assisted in comparison to hospital-based therapist-delivered therapy for community-dwelling stroke survivors.
METHODS: An assessor blinded randomised controlled trial was conducted on 91 stroke survivors (mean age 58.9±10.6 years, median time post-onset 13.0 months, 76.5% males) who had completed individual rehabilitation. The control group received hospital-based group therapy delivered by physiotherapists as out-patients and the test group was assigned to a home-based carer-assisted therapy. Targeted primary outcomes were physical functions (mobility, balance, lower limb strength and gait speed). A secondary outcome index was health-related quality of life. An intention-to-treat analysis was used to evaluate outcomes at week 12 of intervention.
RESULTS: Both therapy groups improved significantly in all the functional measures; mobility (p < 0.01), balance (p < 0.01), lower limb strength (p < 0.01), gait speed (p < 0.05), and in the quality of life score (p < 0.05) at trial completion. No statistical differences were found between the two groups in any outcome indices (all p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The home-based carer-assisted therapy is as effective as the hospital-based therapist-delivered training in improving post-stroke functions and quality of life.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementing electronic substance use disorder and depression and anxiety screening and behavioral interventions in primary care clinics serving people with HIV: Protocol for the Promoting Access to Care Engagement (PACE) trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Substance use disorders (SUDs) and psychiatric disorders are common among people with HIV (PWH) and lead to poor outcomes. Yet these conditions often go unrecognized and untreated in primary care.
METHODS: The Promoting Access to Care Engagement (PACE) trial currently in process examines the impact of self-administered electronic screening for SUD risk, depression and anxiety in three large Kaiser Permanente Northern California primary care clinics serving over 5000 PWH. Screening uses validated measures (Tobacco, Alcohol, Prescription medication, and other Substance use [TAPS]; and the Adult Outcomes Questionnaire [AOQ], which includes the Patient Health Questionnaire [PHQ-9] and Generalized Anxiety Disorder [GAD-2]) delivered via three modalities (secure messaging, tablets in waiting rooms, and desktop computers in exam rooms). Results are integrated automatically into the electronic health record. Based on screening results and physician referrals, behavioral health specialists embedded in primary care initiate motivational interviewing- and cognitive behavioral therapy-based brief treatment and link patients to addiction and psychiatry clinics as needed. Analyses examine implementation (screening and treatment rates) and effectiveness (SUD, depression and anxiety symptoms; HIV viral control) outcomes using a stepped-wedge design, with a 12-month intervention phase implemented sequentially in the clinics, and a 24-month usual care period prior to implementation in each clinic functioning as sequential observational phases for comparison. We also evaluate screening and treatment costs and implementation barriers and facilitators.
DISCUSSION: The study examines innovative, technology-facilitated strategies for improving assessment and treatment in primary care. Results may help to inform substance use, mental health, and HIV services.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT03217058.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Technology in Allergic Rhinitis: Evolution in Management or Revolution in Health and Care?
Abstract: Smart devices and Internet-based applications (apps) are largely used in allergic rhinitis and may help to address some unmet needs. However, these new tools need to first of all be tested for privacy rules, acceptability, usability, and cost-effectiveness. Second, they should be evaluated in the frame of the digital transformation of health, their impact on health care delivery, and health outcomes. This review (1) summarizes some existing mobile health apps for allergic rhinitis and reviews those in which testing has been published, (2) discusses apps that include risk factors of allergic rhinitis, (3) examines the impact of mobile health apps in phenotype discovery, (4) provides real-world evidence for care pathways, and finally (5) discusses mobile health tools enabling the digital transformation of health and care, empowering citizens, and building a healthier society.
Label Included: 0

Title: Face to Face Appointment vs. Telemedicine in First Time Appointment Orthopedic Oncology Patients: A Cost Analysis.
Abstract: Medicine has evolved considerably in recent decades in part thanks to information and communication technologies in health (ICTs). However, face-to-face consultations continue to be the predominant model, since alternatives such as telemedicine are still the subject of debate. On the other hand, in some very specific specialties, centralization is relevant, mainly due to the low frequency and prevalence of diseases, as well as the need to have highly specialized professionals, causing problems in terms of accessibility and costs for the health system. In this study we have analyzed the first consultations to an orthopedics oncology service at a tertiary institution and performed an analysis of economic costs was carried out between 2 possible scenarios: face-to-face consultations versus telemedicine. Analyzing the 2 scenarios, there would be a cost-benefit in the use of telemedicine leading to a decrease in healthcare cost between 12.2% and 72%.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Association Between Web-Based or Face-to-Face Lifestyle Interventions on the Perceived Benefits and Barriers to Exercise in Midlife Women: Three-Arm Equivalency Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Noncommunicable diseases pose a significant threat to women's health globally, with most diseases being attributed to modifiable risk factors such as physical inactivity. Women perceive a range of benefits and barriers to exercise; however, there is little evidence about the effect of different lifestyle intervention delivery modes on perceptions of exercise.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to compare the effect of a multiple health behavior change (MHBC) intervention called the Women's Wellness Program. This intervention was delivered in 3 different modes on perceived exercise benefits, perceived exercise barriers, and actual physical activity and exercise in midlife women.
METHODS: Women aged 45 to 65 years were recruited via the study website. They were assigned in blocks to 3 different treatment groups (A: Web-based independent; B: face-to-face with nurse consultations; and C: Web-based with virtual nurse consultations). All participants received the 12-week intervention that utilizes principles from social-cognitive theory to provide a structured guide to promote healthy lifestyle behaviors with an emphasis on regular exercise and healthy eating. Data were collected using a self-report Web-based questionnaire at baseline (T1) and postintervention (T2) including perceived exercise benefits and barriers and exercise and physical activity. A data analysis examined both within- and between-group changes over time.
RESULTS: Participants in this study (N=225) had a mean age of 50.9 years (SD 5.9) and most were married or living with a partner (83.3%, 185/225). Attrition was 30.2% with 157 participants completing the final questionnaire. Women in all intervention groups reported a significant increase in positive perceptions of exercise (P<.05); a significant increase in exercise and overall physical activity (P<.01) with moderate-to-large effect sizes noted for overall physical activity (d=0.5 to d=0.87). Participants receiving support from registered nurses in the face-to-face and Web-based groups had a greater magnitude of change in benefit perceptions and physical activity than those in the Web-based independent group. There was no significant change in exercise barrier perceptions within or between groups over time.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that the (MHBC) intervention is effective in increasing exercise benefit perceptions, overall physical activity, and exercise in midlife women. Although Web-based programs are cost-effective and flexible and can be delivered remotely, providing a range of options including face-to-face group delivery and personalized electronic health coaching from registered nurses has the potential to enhance participant engagement and motivation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile sexual health services for adolescents: investigating the acceptability of youth-directed mobile clinic services in Cape Town, South Africa.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) epidemic is growing rapidly among South African adolescents and young adults (AYA). Although HIV counselling and testing, HIV prevention and treatment options are widely available, many AYA delay health-seeking until illness occurs, demonstrating a need for youth responsive, integrated sexual and reproductive health services (SRHS). While feasibility and cost-effectiveness have been evaluated, acceptability of mobile clinics among AYA has yet to be established. The objective of this study was to investigate patient acceptability of mobile AYA SRHS and compare mobile clinic usage and HIV outcomes with nearby conventional clinics.
METHODS: Patients presenting to a mobile clinic in Cape Town were invited to participate in an acceptability study of a mobile clinic after using the service. A trained researcher administered an acceptability questionnaire. Mobile clinic medical records during the study period were compared with the records of AYA attending four clinics in the same community.
RESULTS: Three hundred three enrolled participants (16-24 years, 246 (81.2%) female) rated mobile AYA SRHS acceptability highly (median = 4,6 out of 5), with 90% rating their experience as better or much better than conventional clinics. The mobile clinic, compared to conventional clinics, attracted more men (26% v 13%, p < 0,000), younger patients (18 v 19 years, p < 0,000), and yielded more HIV diagnoses (4% v 2%, p < 0,000).
CONCLUSIONS: Given the high ratings of acceptability, and the preference for mobile clinics over conventional primary health clinics, the scalability of mobile clinics should be investigated as part of a multipronged approach to improve the uptake of SRHS diagnostic, prevention and treatment options for AYA.
Label Included: 0

Title: What Is the Impact of Innovative Electronic Health Interventions in Improving Treatment Adherence in Asthma? The Pediatric Perspective.
Abstract: Suboptimal adherence to treatment is a significant issue in the management of pediatric asthma and is a major cause of uncontrolled disease, life-threatening attacks, and increased use of health care resources. Electronic health solutions have the potential to positively impact asthma self-management in children and adolescents and their families, thereby improving treatment adherence and asthma outcomes. However, there is a lack of sufficient data to support widespread adoption of electronic health tools in pediatric asthma practice. A critical evaluation of the impact of these new interventions on treatment adherence in childhood asthma must consider unmet needs, heterogeneity of trials, safety and data security issues, long-term effects, and cost-effectiveness. This article explores the most relevant issues facing the role of electronic health and its subcategory-mobile health-in promoting treatment adherence in childhood asthma, focusing on current evidence gaps and limitations, and future research perspectives.
Label Included: 0

Title: eHealth interventions for people with chronic kidney disease.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with high morbidity and death, which increases as CKD progresses to end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). There has been increasing interest in developing innovative, effective and cost-efficient methods to engage with patient populations and improve health behaviours and outcomes. Worldwide there has been a tremendous increase in the use of technologies, with increasing interest in using eHealth interventions to improve patient access to relevant health information, enhance the quality of healthcare and encourage the adoption of healthy behaviours.
OBJECTIVES: This review aims to evaluate the benefits and harms of using eHealth interventions to change health behaviours in people with CKD.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 14 January 2019 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs using an eHealth intervention to promote behaviour change in people with CKD were included. There were no restrictions on outcomes, language or publication type.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed trial eligibility, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias. The certainty of the evidence was assessed using GRADE.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 43 studies with 6617 participants that evaluated the impact of an eHealth intervention in people with CKD. Included studies were heterogeneous in terms of eHealth modalities employed, type of intervention, CKD population studied and outcomes assessed. The majority of studies (39 studies) were conducted in an adult population, with 16 studies (37%) conducted in those on dialysis, 11 studies (26%) in the pre-dialysis population, 15 studies (35%) in transplant recipients and 1 studies (2%) in transplant candidates We identified six different eHealth modalities including: Telehealth; mobile or tablet application; text or email messages; electronic monitors; internet/websites; and video or DVD. Three studies used a combination of eHealth interventions. Interventions were categorised into six types: educational; reminder systems; self-monitoring; behavioural counselling; clinical decision-aid; and mixed intervention types. We identified 98 outcomes, which were categorised into nine domains: blood pressure (9 studies); biochemical parameters (6 studies); clinical end-points (16 studies); dietary intake (3 studies); quality of life (9 studies); medication adherence (10 studies); behaviour (7 studies); physical activity (1 study); and cost-effectiveness (7 studies).Only three outcomes could be meta-analysed as there was substantial heterogeneity with respect to study population and eHealth modalities utilised. There was found to be a reduction in interdialytic weight gain of 0.13kg (4 studies, 335 participants: MD -0.13, 95% CI -0.28 to 0.01; I2 = 0%) and a reduction in dietary sodium intake of 197 mg/day (2 studies, 181 participants: MD -197, 95% CI -540.7 to 146.8; I2 = 0%). Both dietary sodium and fluid management outcomes were graded as being of low evidence due to high or unclear risk of bias and indirectness (interdialytic weight gain) and high or unclear risk of bias and imprecision (dietary sodium intake). Three studies reported death (2799 participants, 146 events), with 45 deaths/1000 cases compared to standard care of 61 deaths/1000 cases (RR 0.74, CI 0.53 to 1.03; P = 0.08). We are uncertain whether using eHealth interventions, in addition to usual care, impact on the number of deaths as the certainty of this evidence was graded as low due to high or unclear risk of bias, indirectness and imprecision.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: eHealth interventions may improve the management of dietary sodium intake and fluid management. However, overall these data suggest that current evidence for the use of eHealth interventions in the CKD population is of low quality, with uncertain effects due to methodological limitations and heterogeneity of eHealth modalities and intervention types. Our review has highlighted the need for robust, high quality research that reports a core (minimum) data set to enable meaningful evaluation of the literature.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote Surveillance Technologies: Realizing the Aim of Right Patient, Right Data, Right Time.
Abstract: The convergence of multiple recent developments in health care information technology and monitoring devices has made possible the creation of remote patient surveillance systems that increase the timeliness and quality of patient care. More convenient, less invasive monitoring devices, including patches, wearables, and biosensors, now allow for continuous physiological data to be gleaned from patients in a variety of care settings across the perioperative experience. These data can be bound into a single data repository, creating so-called data lakes. The high volume and diversity of data in these repositories must be processed into standard formats that can be queried in real time. These data can then be used by sophisticated prediction algorithms currently under development, enabling the early recognition of patterns of clinical deterioration otherwise undetectable to humans. Improved predictions can reduce alarm fatigue. In addition, data are now automatically queriable on a real-time basis such that they can be fed back to clinicians in a time frame that allows for meaningful intervention. These advancements are key components of successful remote surveillance systems. Anesthesiologists have the opportunity to be at the forefront of remote surveillance in the care they provide in the operating room, postanesthesia care unit, and intensive care unit, while also expanding their scope to include high-risk preoperative and postoperative patients on the general care wards. These systems hold the promise of enabling anesthesiologists to detect and intervene upon changes in the clinical status of the patient before adverse events have occurred. Importantly, however, significant barriers still exist to the effective deployment of these technologies and their study in impacting patient outcomes. Studies demonstrating the impact of remote surveillance on patient outcomes are limited. Critical to the impact of the technology are strategies of implementation, including who should receive and respond to alerts and how they should respond. Moreover, the lack of cost-effectiveness data and the uncertainty of whether clinical activities surrounding these technologies will be financially reimbursed remain significant challenges to future scale and sustainability. This narrative review will discuss the evolving technical components of remote surveillance systems, the clinical use cases relevant to the anesthesiologist's practice, the existing evidence for their impact on patients, the barriers that exist to their effective implementation and study, and important considerations regarding sustainability and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Intravenous ceftriaxone at home versus intravenous flucloxacillin in hospital for children with cellulitis: a cost-effectiveness analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy after hospital admission is increasingly popular, but its use to avoid admission to hospital altogether by treating patients wholly as outpatients remains uncommon in children. One reason for the low use of treatment at home is the scarcity of evidence of its cost-effectiveness. In this planned follow-up analysis of the Cellulitis at Home or Inpatient in Children from the Emergency Department (CHOICE) trial, we aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of an admission avoidance pathway, in which children were treated at home, compared with standard hospital care for the intravenous treatment of moderate or severe cellulitis.
METHODS: We did a cost-effectiveness analysis to compare home treatment with intravenous ceftriaxone versus hospital treatment with intravenous flucloxacillin in children aged 6 months to 18 years who had presented to the emergency department at The Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, with moderate or severe uncomplicated cellulitis. We included costs from two sources: institutional costs at a patient level and expenses incurred by families. We measured effectiveness with quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), which we derived from the Child Health Utility 9D questionnaire, and a clinical outcome of treatment failure, which was the primary outcome of the CHOICE trial. We planned to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, defined as the difference between groups in total cost divided by the difference between groups in effectiveness. The CHOICE trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02334124.
FINDINGS: We included 180 children who comprised the per-protocol population in the CHOICE trial: 89 children in the home group and 91 children in the hospital group. The institutional cost per patient per episode was significantly lower in the home group than in the hospital group (AUS$1965 vs $3775; p<0·0001). The mean cost incurred per family was $182 for the home group and $593 for the hospital group (p<0·0001). Both measures of effectiveness were significantly better in the home group than in the hospital group: QALYs were 0·005 for the home group versus 0·004 for the hospital group (p<0·0001), and treatment failure occurred in one (1%) patient in the home group versus seven (8%) patients in the hospital group (risk difference -6·5%, 95% CI -12·4 to -0·7; p=0·029). Calculating the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was thus deemed redundant.
INTERPRETATION: Treatment at home was less costly and more effective than standard hospital care for children with moderate or severe cellulitis. These findings support development of this admission avoidance pathway in hospitals.
FUNDING: The Royal Children's Hospital Foundation, Murdoch Children's Research Institute.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient registries for home oxygen research and evaluation.
Abstract: Randomized clinical trials are the preferred study design to address key research questions about the benefits or harms of interventions. However, randomized trials of oxygen therapy are difficult to conduct and have limitations. The purpose of this article is to offer our view on the potential use of patient registries in the field of home oxygen in COPD as an alternative to randomized trials by referring to the Swedish experience with a national registry for respiratory failure. Patient registries use observational study methods to collect uniform data (clinical and other) to evaluate specified outcomes for a population defined by a particular disease, condition, or exposure. As opposed to administrative databases, patient registries serve one or more predetermined scientific, clinical, or policy purposes. By systematically and prospectively compiling relevant data, patient registries may describe the natural history of a disease, determine effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, assess safety or harm, and measure quality of care. Registry-based randomized trials (ie, randomized trials within a clinical registry) combine the advantages of a prospective randomized trial with the strengths of a large-scale all-comers clinical registry. Challenges and issues in the design and implementation of patient registries include the representativeness of participants, data collection, quality assurance, ownership, and governance. Notwithstanding their limitations, patient registries represent valuable tools in the conduct of research in the area of home oxygen therapy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Dementia-related neuropsychiatric symptoms: inequalities in pharmacological treatment and institutionalization.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dementia-related neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) are the main determinant of family stress and institutionalization of patients. This study aimed to identify inequalities by gender and socioeconomic status in the management of NPS in patients diagnosed with dementia.
METHODS: An observational study was carried out to study all the cases of dementia in the corporate database of the Basque Health Service (29,864 patients). The prescription of antipsychotics and antidepressants and admission to a nursing home were used to establish the presence of NPS. The socioeconomic status of individuals was classified by a deprivation index. Logistic regressions were used to identify drivers for drug prescriptions and institutionalization.
RESULTS: NPS are poorly recorded in the clinical databases (12%). Neuropsychiatric symptoms were severe enough in two thirds of patients with dementia to be treated with psychoactive medication. Institutionalization showed an increase from those who did not receive medication to those who had been prescribed antidepressants (OR: 1.546), antipsychotics (OR: 2.075) or both (OR: 2.741). The resulting inequalities were the increased prescription of antidepressant drugs in women and more nursing-home admissions for women who were the least socioeconomically deprived and men who were the most deprived.
CONCLUSIONS: In large clinical databases, psychoactive drugs prescriptions can be useful to underscore the considerable burden of dementia-related NPS. Specific tools are needed to monitor social and health care programs targeted to dementia-related NPS from a population perspective. Programs aimed at reducing the family burden of care of dementia patients at home become the key elements in reducing inequalities in these patients' care. Socioeconomic status is the most important driver of inequality, and gender inequality may simply be hidden within the social environment. Integrated programs boosting the continuity of care are an objective for which compliance could be measured according to the NPS coding in the electronic health record.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Multidimensional Prognostic Index in general practice: One-year follow-up study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Older patients' health problems in general practice (GP) can often not be assigned to a specific disease, requiring a paradigm shift to goal-oriented, personalised care for clinical decision making.
PURPOSE: To investigate the predictive value of the comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA)-based Multidimensional Prognostic Index (MPI) in a GP setting with respect to the main healthcare indicators during the 12 months following initial evaluation.
METHODS: One hundred twenty-five consecutive patients aged 70 years and older were enrolled in a GP and followed up to one year. All patients underwent a CGA based on which the MPI was calculated and subdivided into three risk groups (MPI-1, 0-0.33 = low risk, MPI-2, 0.34-0.66 = moderate risk and MPI-3, 0.67-1, severe risk). Grade of Care (GC), hospitalization rate, mortality, nursing home admission, use of home care services, falls, number of general practitioner contacts (GPC), of geriatric resources (GR) and geriatric syndromes (GS) during the 12 months following initial evaluation were collected.
RESULTS: The MPI was significantly associated with number of GS (P < .001), GR (P < .001), GC (P < .001) as well as with the average number of GPC per year (mean 10.4, P = .046). Interestingly, the clinical judgement of the general practitioner, in this case knowing his patients for 16 years on average, was associated with adverse outcomes to a similar extent than the prediction offered by the MPI (GP/adverse outcomes and MPI/adverse outcomes P < .001).
CONCLUSION: The MPI is strongly associated with adverse outcomes in older GP patients and strongly predicts the number of GPC up to one year after initial evaluation. Considering the feasibility and the strong clinimetric properties of the MPI, its collection should be encouraged as early as possible to disclose risk conditions, implement tailored preventive strategies and improve cost-effectiveness of healthcare resources use.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of Simple Telemetry to Reduce the Health Impacts of Fuel Poverty and Living in Cold Homes.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: In Great Britain, roughly half of people with at least one long-standing illness (LSI) live in low-income households. Lower-income households are at risk of fuel poverty and living in a colder house, which can worsen certain health conditions, causing related morbidity and mortality. This pilot study aimed to assess whether raising occupants' awareness of indoor temperatures in the home could initiate improved health and well-being among such vulnerable residents.
METHODS: Thermometers were placed inside a manufactured bamboo brooch to be worn or placed within homes during the winter of 2016/17. These devices were supplied to households (n = 34) already assisted by Community Energy Plus, which is a private social enterprise in Cornwall, United Kingdom (UK), using initiatives aimed at maintaining "healthy homes". Questionnaires were supplied to households before devices were supplied, and then again at the end of a three-month period, with further questions asked when devices were collected. Temperatures were recorded automatically every half-hour and used to draw inference from questionnaire responses, particularly around health and well-being.
RESULTS: Questionnaires were completed by 22 households. Throughout the winter, those declaring the poorest health when supplied with devices maintained homes at a higher average temperature. There were also indications that those with raised awareness of interior temperatures sought fewer casual medicines.
CONCLUSION: Simple telemetry could play a role in the management of chronic health conditions in winter, helping healthcare systems become more sustainable. The need for higher indoor temperatures among people with an LSI highlights the need to consider this approach alongside more sustainable household energy-efficiency improvements. A larger study is needed to explore this further and quantify the cost benefit of this approach.
Label Included: 0

Title: Appropriateness of thrombophilia testing in patients in the acute care setting and an evaluation of the associated costs.
Abstract: Thrombophilia testing is rarely recommended in acute care settings due to the high likelihood of false-positive and false-negative results. Inappropriately performing these tests in the acute care setting is associated with inaccurate interpretation and an increased economic burden. In this retrospective analysis, the appropriateness of thrombophilia tests ordered for patients in an acute care setting was evaluated in terms of both clinical utility and economic costs. This analysis included adult inpatients discharged from an academic community medical center from November 1, 2016 to November 1, 2017 who received thrombophilia testing. Patients were stratified into two groups: appropriately tested and inappropriately tested based on data abstracted directly from the electronic health record. The primary outcome, the appropriateness of the tests, was based on published criteria for thrombophilia testing and included concurrent anticoagulation use, patient admitting diagnosis, and/or comorbidities associated with thrombosis risk. The secondary endpoint was the financial burden of inappropriate thrombophilia testing based on assay charges. The analytic sample included 200 patients and 1393 thrombophilia tests. In 179 patients (89.5%), 1168 tests (83.8%) were inappropriately conducted. From 179 patients, tests in 85 were inappropriate due to concurrent anticoagulant use and/or provoked venous thromboembolism (VTE), and tests in 94 were inappropriate due to a lack of 2 or more risk factors for thrombophilia. Only 21 patients (10.5%) had appropriate testing with 225 tests (16.2%). The financial impact of inappropriate testing was estimated as excess charges amounting to $148,151.16/year. Restricting testing to avoid unnecessary risks and costs warrants further analysis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Exploring health care providers' perceptions about home-based palliative care in terminally ill cancer patients.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: According to the World Health Organization, palliative care is one of the main components of healthcare. As the incidence of cancer is increasing in the world, home-based palliative care can be beneficial for many patients. This study was designed to explore health care providers' perceptions about home-based palliative care in terminally ill cancer patients.
METHODS: This qualitative study was carried out using the conventional content analysis from October 2016 to September 2018 in Iran. Participants were home care providers who were selected using purposive sampling. The data were collected through 18 individual interviews, and a focus group meeting. Data were analyzed based on the method proposed by Lundman and Graneheim.
RESULTS: from the data analysis, 511 initial codes were extracted, which were categorized into the two main categories of challenges and opportunities for home-based palliative care and 10 subcategories. The subcategories of challenges included deficiencies in inter-sectoral and inter-professional cooperation, lack of infrastructures for end-of-life care, challenges related to the management of death, challenges of transferring patients to home, providing non-academic palliative care, lack of political commitment of the government and Spiritual vacuum. The category of opportunities included subcategories of cost-effectiveness, moving towards socializing health, and structure of the health system.
CONCLUSIONS: Home-based palliative care requires government and health system support. Structural and process modification in the healthcare can provide conditions in which terminally ill cancer patients receive appropriate care in home and experience death with dignity through support of family, friends and healthcare.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of oral rotavirus vaccination in England against rotavirus-confirmed and all-cause acute gastroenteritis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The monovalent oral rotavirus vaccine Rotarix® was introduced into the UK infant immunisation programme in 2013. We estimated vaccine effectiveness (VE) in the first two years of the programme.
METHODS: We used a test-negative case-control design and enhanced national surveillance data for 1869 vaccine-eligible children tested for rotavirus infection to obtain adjusted odds ratios and VE against laboratory-confirmed rotavirus infections. Linked anonymised UK primary care and hospitalisation data from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (40,723 children) and random-effects Poisson regression were used in a cohort study to estimate VE against all-cause acute gastroenteritis (AGE) and AGE hospitalisations.
RESULTS: VE against laboratory-confirmed infection was 69% (95% Confidence Interval: 40-84%) for one dose and 77% (95%CI: 66-85%) for two doses. Two-dose VE in children aged <12 months and ≥12 months was 85% (95%CI: 74-91%) and 54% (95%CI: 15-75%), respectively. In contrast, we found no evidence that the vaccine was effective against all-cause AGE (VE = -20%, 95%CI: -36% to -5%), or against AGE hospitalisations (VE = 35%, 95% CI: -86% to 77%).
CONCLUSIONS: In this first detailed assessment of VE of the Rotarix® vaccine in the English national programme, we show that Rotarix® was highly effective in preventing laboratory-confirmed rotavirus infection in young children. This provides reassurance about the vaccine's performance in real-life settings and gives key information for future cost-effectiveness analyses. The high VE against rotavirus-specific AGE, and the exceptionally successful implementation of the national rotavirus vaccine programme (with >90% vaccine coverage), explains the lack of VE against all-cause AGE because most AGE in the post-vaccine era would not have been due to rotavirus, although some underestimation of VE could also have occurred due to differential healthcare utilisation by vaccinated and unvaccinated infants. This highlights the importance of using specific vaccine-preventable endpoints for these scenarios.
Label Included: 0

Title: Scaling Up Teleophthalmology for Diabetic Eye Screening: Opportunities for Widespread Implementation in the USA.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: We discuss opportunities to address key barriers to widespread implementation of teleophthalmology programs for diabetic eye screening in the United States (U.S.).
RECENT FINDINGS: Teleophthalmology is an evidence-based form of diabetic eye screening. This technology has been proven to substantially increase diabetic eye screening rates and decrease blindness. However, teleophthalmology implementation remains limited among U.S. health systems. Major barriers include financial concerns as well as limited utilization by providers, clinical staff, and patients. Possible interventions include increasingly affordable camera technology, demonstration of financially sustainable billing models, and engaging key stakeholders. Significant opportunities exist to overcome barriers to scale up and promote widespread implementation of teleophthalmology in the USA. Further development of methods to sustain effective increases in diabetic eye screening rates using this technology is needed. In addition, the demonstration of cost-effectiveness in a variety of billing models should be investigated to facilitate widespread implementation of teleophthalmology in U.S. health systems.
Label Included: 0

Title: Outcomes of reablement and their measurement: Findings from an evaluation of English reablement services.
Abstract: Reablement - or restorative care - is a central feature of many western governments' approaches to supporting and enabling older people to stay in their own homes and minimise demand for social care. Existing evidence supports this approach although further research is required to strengthen the certainty of conclusions being drawn. In countries where reablement has been rolled out nationally, an additional research priority - to develop an evidence base on models of delivery - is emerging. This paper reports a prospective cohort study of individuals referred to three English social care reablement services, each representing a different model of service delivery. Outcomes included healthcare- and social care-related quality of life, functioning, mental health and resource use (service costs, informal carer time, out-of-pocket costs). In contrast with the majority of other studies, self-report measures were the predominant source of outcomes and resource use data. Furthermore, no previous evaluation has used a global measure of mental health. Outcomes data were collected on entry to the service, discharge and 6 months post discharge. A number of challenges were encountered during the study and insufficient individuals were recruited in two research sites to allow a comparison of service models. Findings from descriptive analyses of outcomes align with previous studies and positive changes were observed across all outcome domains. Improvements observed at discharge were, for most, retained at 6 months follow-up. Patterns of change in functional ability point to the importance of assessing functioning in terms of basic and extended activities of daily living. Findings from the economic evaluation highlight the importance of collecting data on informal carer time and also demonstrate the viability of collecting resource use data direct from service users. The study demonstrates challenges, and value, of including self-report outcome and resource use measures in evaluations of reablement.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness of home versus community-based weight control programmes initiated soon after breast cancer diagnosis: a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Breast cancer diagnosis may be a teachable moment for lifestyle behaviour change and to prevent adjuvant therapy associated weight gain. We assessed the acceptability and effectiveness of two weight control programmes initiated soon after breast cancer diagnosis to reduce weight amongst overweight or obese women and prevent gains in normal-weight women.
METHODS: Overweight or obese (n = 243) and normal weight (n = 166) women were randomised to a three-month unsupervised home (home), a supervised community weight control programme (community) or to standard written advice (control). Primary end points were change in weight and body fat at 12 months. Secondary end points included change in insulin, cardiovascular risk markers, quality of life and cost-effectiveness of the programmes.
RESULTS: Forty-three percent of eligible women were recruited. Both programmes reduced weight and body fat: home vs. control mean (95% CI); weight -2.3 (-3.5, -1.0) kg, body fat -1.6 (-2.6, -0.7) kg, community vs. control; weight -2.4 (-3.6, -1.1) kg, body fat -1.4 (-2.4, -0.5) kg (all p < 0.001). The community group increased physical activity, reduced insulin, cardiovascular disease risk markers, increased QOL and was cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The programmes were equally effective for weight control, but the community programme had additional benefits.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN68576140.
Label Included: 0

Title: Detection of glaucomatous optic neuropathy with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography: a retrospective training and validation deep-learning analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT) can be used to detect glaucomatous optic neuropathy, but human expertise in interpretation of SDOCT is limited. We aimed to develop and validate a three-dimensional (3D) deep-learning system using SDOCT volumes to detect glaucomatous optic neuropathy.
METHODS: We retrospectively collected a dataset including 4877 SDOCT volumes of optic disc cube for training (60%), testing (20%), and primary validation (20%) from electronic medical and research records at the Chinese University of Hong Kong Eye Centre (Hong Kong, China) and the Hong Kong Eye Hospital (Hong Kong, China). Residual network was used to build the 3D deep-learning system. Three independent datasets (two from Hong Kong and one from Stanford, CA, USA), including 546, 267, and 1231 SDOCT volumes, respectively, were used for external validation of the deep-learning system. Volumes were labelled as having or not having glaucomatous optic neuropathy according to the criteria of retinal nerve fibre layer thinning on reliable SDOCT images with position-correlated visual field defect. Heatmaps were generated for qualitative assessments.
FINDINGS: 6921 SDOCT volumes from 1 384 200 two-dimensional cross-sectional scans were studied. The 3D deep-learning system had an area under the receiver operation characteristics curve (AUROC) of 0·969 (95% CI 0·960-0·976), sensitivity of 89% (95% CI 83-93), specificity of 96% (92-99), and accuracy of 91% (89-93) in the primary validation, outperforming a two-dimensional deep-learning system that was trained on en face fundus images (AUROC 0·921 [0·905-0·937]; p<0·0001). The 3D deep-learning system performed similarly in the external validation datasets, with AUROCs of 0·893-0·897, sensitivities of 78-90%, specificities of 79-86%, and accuracies of 80-86%. The heatmaps of glaucomatous optic neuropathy showed that the learned features by the 3D deep-learning system used for detection of glaucomatous optic neuropathy were similar to those used by clinicians.
INTERPRETATION: The proposed 3D deep-learning system performed well in detection of glaucomatous optic neuropathy in both primary and external validations. Further prospective studies are needed to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of incorporation of an artificial intelligence-based model for glaucoma screening.
FUNDING: Hong Kong Research Grants Council.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating a falls prevention intervention in older home care recipients: a comparison of SF-6D and EQ-5D.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is an important outcome in economic evaluations of health care interventions for older adults. The aim of this study was to compare two commonly used preference-based utility measures, SF-6D and EQ-5D, to provide knowledge on their applicability when evaluating falls prevention interventions in primary health care.
METHODS: The study is a secondary analysis of longitudinal data from a randomised controlled trial, which included 155 older home care recipients participating in a falls prevention intervention in Norway. HRQOL was measured by SF-6D and EQ-5D. Physical function was measured by Berg Balance Scale, 4-m walk test, 30-s sit-to-stand and Falls Efficacy Scale International. Assessments were performed at baseline, 3 months and 6 months. The agreement between SF-6D and EQ-5D was examined using Bland-Altman plots and Spearman correlations. Elasticities from regression analysis were employed to compare the instruments' responsiveness.
RESULTS: SF-6D and EQ-5D were strongly correlated (0.71), but there were differences in the instruments' agreement and domains of HRQOL covered. Participants with a higher mean HRQOL and/or better physical function scored generally higher on EQ-5D. Participants with a lower mean HRQOL and/or poorer physical function achieved a relatively higher score on SF-6D. EQ-5D was more responsive to changes in physical function compared to SF-6D.
CONCLUSIONS: SF-6D and EQ-5D have both similarities and differences regarding sensitivity, domains covered and responsiveness to changes when evaluating a falls prevention intervention. Selecting the appropriate instrument depends on the characteristics of the participants and the intervention being evaluated.
Label Included: 0

Title: A pragmatic randomised controlled trial (RCT) and realist evaluation of the interdisciplinary home-bAsed Reablement program (I-HARP) for improving functional independence of community dwelling older people with dementia: an effectiveness-implementation hybrid design.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A major gap exists internationally in providing support to maintain functional and social independence of older people with dementia living at home. This project evaluates a model of care that integrates evidence-based strategies into a person-centred interdisciplinary rehabilitation package: Interdisciplinary Home-bAsed Reablement Program (I-HARP). Two central aims are: 1) to determine the effectiveness of I-HARP on functional independence, mobility, quality of life and depression among people with dementia, their home environmental safety, carer burden and quality of life, and I-HARP cost-effectiveness; and 2) to evaluate the processes, outcomes and influencing factors of the I-HARP implementation.
METHODS: I-HARP is a 4-month model of care, integrated in community aged care services and hospital-based community geriatric services, and consists of: 1) 8-12 home visits, tailored to the individual client's needs, by an occupational therapist, registered nurse, and other allied health staff; 2) minor home modifications/assistive devices to the value of <A$1000 per participant; and 3) three individual carer support sessions. The overarching design is a mixed-methods action research approach, consisting of a multi-centre pragmatic parallel-arm randomised controlled trial (RCT) and realist evaluation, conducted in two phases. Participants include 176 dyads (person aged > 60 years with mild to moderate dementia and his/her carer). During Phase I, I-HARP advisory group is established and training of I-HARP interventionists is completed, and the effectiveness of I-HARP is examined using a pragmatic RCT. Phase II, conducted concurrently with Phase I, focuses on the process evaluation of the I-HARP implementation using a realist approach. Semi-structured interviews with participants and focus groups with I-HARP interventionists and participating site managers will provide insights into the contexts, mechanisms and outcomes of I-HARP.
DISCUSSION: I-HARP is being evaluated within the real-world systems of hospital-based and community-based aged care services in Australia. Future directions and strategies for reablement approaches to care for community dwelling people living with dementia, will be developed. The study will provide evidence to inform key stakeholders in their decision making and the use/delivery of the program, as well as influence future systems-thinking and changes for dementia care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry ACTR N12618000600246 (approved 18/04/2018).
Label Included: 0

Title: The Effects of Case Timing and Care Team Composition on Hospital Operating Room Costs for Endovascular Procedures.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The contemporary healthcare environment is complex with mounting pressures to perform greater procedural volumes with less support staff to minimize costs and maximize efficiency. This report details an analysis of routine endovascular procedures performed with dedicated vascular support staff during daytime hours compared to similar cases performed after hours with general operating room staff.
METHODS: All lower extremity endovascular cases over a 37-month period were identified using Current Procedural Terminology codes from a query of our institutional database. Emergent/urgent cases and cases with associated open surgical procedures were excluded. Cases were divided according to the time of day and available clinical support structure according to procedure start time: specialty-specific daytime (SS) and general staff after hours for all others (AH). The resulting case list was examined by case type according to SS or AH designation and case types occurring disproportionately during either time frame were excluded to create a homogenous group of cases. Demographics, case specifics, and cost data were then obtained from the electronic health record and our enterprise cost data warehouse. Multivariable mixed linear modeling was used to examine component costs (i.e., anesthesia, supplies, etc.) and total costs controlling for a number of factors that could affect cost.
RESULTS: Two hundred fifty-two routine endovascular-only procedures were examined in 232 patients (190 SS, 42 AH). No significant differences in procedure specifics were observed between the groups [number and location of access site(s), indication for procedure, type and number of interventions, etc.]. Multivariable analyses controlled for factors affecting costs. Costs associated with anesthesia (cost ratio 1.90, P = 0.001), operating room time costs (cost ratio 1.29, P = 0.03), and post anesthesia recovery (cost ratio 1.23, P = 0.004) were all significantly increased in AH cases compared to SS cases. The average total hospital cost for routine endovascular cases that performed AH was $8,095 compared to $5,636 for SS cases (cost ratio 1.44, P = 0.008).
CONCLUSIONS: Performance of routine endovascular cases was associated with significantly less cost to the hospital system when performed by SS teams during regular hospital hours with a ∼30% increase in total cost associated with AH cases. In the current healthcare environment, investments in SS teams and process improvements are likely to be cost effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: Virtual vs traditional care settings for low-acuity urgent conditions: An economic analysis of cost and utilization using claims data.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: On-demand, direct-to-consumer video (or virtual) visits represent one of the fastest growing telemedicine services. Due to the absence of an in-person physical examination, some question the effectiveness, efficiency and value of virtual care visits. To address these questions, we conducted a retrospective, cross-sectional review of Intermountain Healthcare's virtual care programme.
METHOD: This study used SelectHealth claims for virtual, urgent, primary and emergency care delivered between 1 April 2016-31 March 2017. We included all claims with primary diagnosis from the nine most common categories for virtual care. A secondary data source included survey data indicating how virtual visits redirect care.
RESULTS: We matched 1531 virtual visit claims with claims from urgent (4377), primary (4388) and emergency care (2285). There were no differences in follow-up rates between virtual and urgent care and no differences in antibiotic use between virtual and urgent or primary care. Virtual care was significantly lower than all other care settings in utilization of laboratory and imaging services, index visit cost and total costs over 21 days.
CONCLUSIONS: This study affirmed lower cost for virtual care without an associated increase in overall follow-up rates or antibiotic use when compared with urgent or primary care. This suggests that virtual visits are can be used to lower the total cost of care for applicable conditions. The implications are that virtual visits help lower operational costs of providing care, particularly in integrated systems with capitated reimbursement. Under the right circumstances, the increased adoption of virtual care should lead to greater savings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Executive Summary of the Assessing Surgical Site Infection Surveillance Technologies (ASSIST) Project.
Abstract: Background: The expert panel that conducted the Assessing Surgical Site Infection Surveillance Technologies (ASSIST) project elaborates on the key findings of the health technologies assessment (HTA) report in a series of articles addressing topics from workflow challenges to implementation strategies to new big data analytics tailored to incorporate serial patient-generated health data (PGHD). Conclusion: By reporting on the methodology, with an emphasis on stakeholder engagement, the ASSIST investigators provide the basis for a future deep dive into the next phase of PGHD integration into surgical site infection (SSI) surveillance.
Label Included: 0

Title: Inequity in postpartum healthcare provision at home and its association with subsequent healthcare expenditure.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Provision of postpartum care can support new families in adapting to a new situation. We aimed to determine whether various determinants of socioeconomic status (SES) were associated with utilization of postpartum care. In addition, to stress the relevance of increasing postpartum care uptake among low SES-groups, an assessment of the potential (cost-)effectiveness of postpartum care is required.
METHODS: National retrospective cohort study using linked routinely collected healthcare data from all registered singleton deliveries (2010-13) in the Netherlands. Small-for-gestational age and preterm babies were excluded. The associations between SES and postpartum care uptake, and between uptake and health care expenditure were studied using multivariable regression analyses.
RESULTS: Of all 569 921 deliveries included, 1.2% did not receive postpartum care. Among women who did receive care, care duration was below the recommended minimum of 24 h in 15.3%. All indicators of low SES were independently associated with a lack in care uptake. Extremes of maternal age, single parenthood and being of non-Dutch origin were associated with reduced uptake independent of SES determinants. No uptake of postpartum care was associated with maternal healthcare expenses in the highest quartile: aOR 1.34 (95% CI 1.10-1.67). Uptake below the recommended amount was associated with higher maternal and infant healthcare expenses: aOR 1.09 (95% CI 1.03-1.18) and aOR 1.20 (95% CI 1.13-1.27), respectively.
CONCLUSION: Although uptake was generally high, low SES women less often received postpartum care, this being associated with higher subsequent healthcare expenses. Strategies to effectively reduce these substantial inequities in early life are urgently needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of a telephone-first consultation system in general practice.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Increasing pressure on general practice prompts innovative change in service organisation. This study sought to evaluate the impact of introducing a telephone-first consultation system in a socioeconomically deprived population.
STUDY DESIGN: An interrupted time series of preplanned outcomes for 2 years before and 1 year postintroduction of a telephone-first system was used to measure the volume and type of general practitioner (GP) consultations and the number of patients consulted per year. Emergency department (ED) and GP out-of-hours attendances, the number of outpatient referrals, and the number of requests for laboratory tests were measured as secondary outcomes.
RESULTS: The telephone-first system was associated with a 20% increase in total GP consultations (telephone and face-to-face, effect estimate at 12 months, p=0.001). Face-to-face consultations decreased by 39% (p<0.001), while telephone consultations increased by 131% (p<0.001). The volume of individual patient requests for a GP consultation and the number of treatment room nurse consultations did not change. Secondary outcome measures showed no change in hospital outpatient referrals, number of requests for laboratory tests, and ED or GP out-of-hours attendances.
CONCLUSIONS: A telephone-first system in a deprived urban general practice can decrease delays to GP-patient contacts. The number of patients seeking a medical intervention did not differ irrespective of the consultation system used. The telephone-first system did not affect GP out-of-hours, laboratory investigations or secondary care contacts.
Label Included: 0

Title: Outcomes of hospital in the home treatment of acute decompensated congestive cardiac failure compared to traditional in-hospital treatment in older patients.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To compare the outcomes of readmission, mortality and treatment-related complications in older people treated by hospital in the home (HITH) for acute decompensated congestive cardiac failure (CCF) with those treated in hospital.
METHODS: Retrospective cohort study of patients 65 years and older treated by HITH over a 30-month period compared with age- and sex-matched patients treated in hospital.
RESULTS: There was no difference between the "HITH" and "Hospital" cohorts in mortality within 60 days of discharge (P = 0.5), time to death (P = 0.8), 30-day (P = 0.7) and 60-day (P = 0.4) readmissions, time to readmission (P = 0.9) and complication rate (P = 0.1). HITH patients had longer length of stay (P = 0.001) but lower cost per day of admission ($669.42 vs $1377.58).
CONCLUSION: In appropriately selected older patients, HITH is a safe, efficacious and cost-effective alternative to inpatient management of acute decompensated CCF.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Utilizing Telemedicine for Improving Heart Failure Readmission: Can a Realist Approach Bridge the Translational Divide?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine and digital health technologies hold great promise for improving clinical care of heart failure. However, inconsistent and contradictory findings from randomized controlled trials have so far discouraged widespread adoption of digital health in routine clinical practice. We undertook this review study to summarize the study outcomes of the use of exploring the evidence for telemedicine in the clinical care of patients with heart failure and readmissions.
METHODS: We inspected the references of guidelines and searched PubMed for randomized controlled trials published over the past 10 years on the use of telemedicine for reducing readmission in heart failure. We utilized a modified realist review approach to identify the underlying contextual mechanisms for the intervention(s) in each randomized controlled trial, evaluating outcomes of the intervention and understanding how and under what conditions they worked. To provide uniformity, all extracted data were synthesized using adapted domains from the taxonomy for disease management created by the Disease Management Taxonomy Writing Group.
RESULTS: A total of 12 papers were eligible, 6 of them supporting and 6 others undermining the use of telemedicine for improving heart failure readmission. In general terms, those studies not supporting the use of telemedicine were multicentre, publicly funded, with large amount of participants, and long duration. The patients had also better rates of treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin II receptor blocker and beta-blockers, and telemonitoring and automatic transmission of vital signs were less utilized, in comparison with the studies in which telemedicine use was supported. The analysis of the environment, intensity, content of interventions, method of communication, quality of the underlying model of care and the ability, capability, and interest from health workers can help us to envisage probabilities of success of telemedicine use.
CONCLUSIONS: A realist lens may aid to understand whom and in which circumstances the use of telemedicine can add any substantial value to traditional models of care. Wider outcome criteria beyond major adverse cardiovascular events, for example, cost efficacy, should also be considered as appropriate for effecting guidelines on care delivery when robust prognostic therapeutics already exist.
Label Included: 0

Title: Real-Time Sensing with Patterned Plasmonic Substrates and a Compact Imager Chip.
Abstract: Optical sensing is an important research field due to its proven ability to be extremely sensitive, nondestructive, and applicable to sensing a wide range of chemical, thermal, electric, or magnetic phenomena. Beyond traditional optical sensors that often rely on bulky setups, plasmonic nanostructures can offer many advantages based on their sensitivity, compact form, cost-effectiveness, multiplexing compatibility, and compatibility with many standard semiconductor nanofabrication techniques. In particular, plasmon-enhanced optical transmission through arrays of nanostructured holes has led to the development of a new generation of optical sensors. In this chapter we present a simple fabrication technique to use plasmonic nanostructures as compact sensors. We position the nanohole array, an LED illumination source, and a spacer layer directly on top of a standard complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) imager chip. This setup is a viable sensor platform in both liquid and gas environments. These devices could operate as low-cost sensors for environmental monitoring, security, food safety, or monitoring small-molecule binding to extract affinity information and binding constants.
Label Included: 0

Title: Treatment delivery strategies for eating disorders.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The traditional model of treatment delivery, based on a psychotherapeutic intervention delivered by a trained professional, in a one-to-one relationship, occurring in a treatment setting context (e.g., clinic, private office, and hospital), highly restricts access to the best standards of care to all of those in need.In this article, we will be focusing on treatment delivering methods for eating disorders that depart from the traditional mode of delivery. We will focus on the use of self-help strategies, both in a pure self-help format, and with external minimal support, guided self-help. We will additionally review the evidence on the use of internet and mobile technology (m-Health) for delivering treatment.
RECENT FINDINGS: Internet-based self-help interventions based on cognitive behavioral approaches have shown to be superior to no treatment for patients diagnosed with bulimia nervosa, binge eating disorder, and other specified feeding or eating disorders with binge/purge characteristics. Although face-to-face, traditional, interventions seem to be more effective than internet-based ones, the latter might have cost benefits and constitute a viable first line of treatment in a stepped care model, or as an alternative to a waitlist while treatment is not available. Other forms of mobile health (e.g., mobile apps) have experienced a surge but remain under researched.
SUMMARY: Mobile health and the internet are promising media for delivering eating disorder treatment. However, more research is needed to determine the utility of internet-based treatments by comparing them to traditional face-to-face treatments for eating disorders, and explore the moderators and mediators impacting adherence and outcome.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient Outcomes and Cost-Effectiveness of a Sepsis Care Quality Improvement Program in a Health System.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Assess patient outcomes in patients with suspected infection and the cost-effectiveness of implementing a quality improvement program.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: We conducted an observational single-center study of 13,877 adults with suspected infection between March 1, 2014, and July 31, 2017. The 18-month period before and after the effective date for mandated reporting of the sepsis bundle was examined. The Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score and culture and antibiotic orders were used to identify patients meeting Sepsis-3 criteria from the electronic health record.
INTERVENTIONS: The following interventions were performed as follows: 1) multidisciplinary sepsis committee with sepsis coordinator and data abstractor; 2) education campaign; 3) electronic health record tools; and 4) a Modified Early Warning System.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Primary health outcomes were in-hospital death and length of stay. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated and the empirical 95% CI for the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was estimated from 5,000 bootstrap samples.
RESULTS: In multivariable analysis, the odds ratio for in-hospital death in the post- versus pre-implementation periods was 0.70 (95% CI, 0.57-0.86) in those with suspected infection, and the hazard ratio for time to discharge was 1.25 (95% CI, 1.20-1.29). Similarly, a decrease in the odds for in-hospital death and an increase in the speed to discharge was observed for the subset that met Sepsis-3 criteria. The program was cost saving in patients with suspected infection (-$272,645.7; 95% CI, -$757,970.3 to -$79,667.7). Cost savings were also observed in the Sepsis-3 group.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Our health system's program designed to adhere to the sepsis bundle metrics led to decreased mortality and length of stay in a cost-effective manner in a much larger catchment than just the cohort meeting the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services measures. Our single-center model of interventions may serve as a practice-based benchmark for hospitalized patients with suspected infection.
Label Included: 0

Title: A cohort study of two intravenous treatments for iron deficiency in patients with heart failure.
Abstract: Background: Iron deficiency (ID) in patients with heart failure (HF) leads to greater morbidity and mortality and its treatment has been associated with significant improvements in quality of life. Since no head-to-head studies are available, there is uncertainty as to which intravenous iron supplement should be used. This study aimed to compare the effect of ferric carboxymaltose (FCM) and iron saccharate (IS) on clinical and biochemical outcomes in patients with HF and ID.Methods: We reviewed electronic health records from a referral centre in Bogotá, Colombia for patients with HF. We selected records with a follow-up of at least 2 years. Primary outcomes were clinically significant changes in EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) , 6-minute-walk test (6MWT), resolution of ID, and direct costs.Results: We obtained data on 119 patients with a median age of 69 years and a median left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 35%. All patients met criteria for ID, and 58% were treated with FCM. A significant difference in GFR of 11 mL/min/1.72 m2 was found at baseline between groups. Neither bivariate, nor multivariate analyses could identify significant differences between patients receiving FCM and IS for any of the primary outcomes. Direct cost analysis showed that FCM use generates 2.8 times the cost associated with saccharate use.Conclusions: This retrospective cohort study did not identify any significant differences in clinical or biochemical outcomes between HF patients with ID receiving FCM or IS. Direct cost analysis favoured use of IS in this group of patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a telehealth psychological support intervention for people with primary brain tumour and their family members: Study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: There is a lack of research on interventions that address the specific psychosocial needs of people with brain tumour and their families. This paper describes the protocol for a pragmatic randomised control trial (RCT) evaluating the clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the Making Sense of Brain Tumour program delivered via telehealth (Tele-MAST) relative to standard care.
METHODS: The 148 adults with primary brain tumour will be randomly allocated to the 10-session Tele-MAST videoconferencing program or standard care from a cancer counselling service. The primary outcome is level of depression and secondary outcomes are quality of life, mental health and incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year. The mental health and quality of life of family members will also be assessed. Assessments will be conducted at pre-intervention, post-intervention (primary endpoint), 6-weeks post-intervention and 6-months post-intervention. The main analysis will determine whether the Tele-MAST intervention is more effective than standard care at post-intervention, and whether these effects are sustained at follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Results will indicate whether the Tele-MAST program is associated with better clinical outcomes and is more cost-effective than existing cancer support services. Such outcomes will contribute to effective and accessible psychosocial care for the brain tumour population.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-Based Education and Learning Program for Atrial Fibrillation: Rationale and Design of the HELP-AF Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a growing global epidemic, with its prevalence expected to significantly rise over coming decades. AF poses a substantial burden on health care systems, largely due to hospitalizations. Home-based clinical characterization has demonstrated improved outcomes in cardiac populations, but its impact on AF remains poorly defined. To test this hypothesis in AF, we developed the Home-Based Education and Learning Program for Patients With Atrial Fibrillation (HELP-AF) study.
METHODS: The HELP-AF study is a prospective multicentre randomized controlled trial that will recruit 620 patients presenting to hospital emergency departments (EDs) with symptomatic AF (ANZCTR Registration: ACTRN12611000607976). Patients will be randomized to either the HELP-AF intervention or usual care. The intervention consists of 2 home visits by a nurse or pharmacist trained in the structured educational visiting (SEV) method. Patients in the control group will receive usual discharge follow-up care.
RESULTS: The primary endpoints are total unplanned hospital admissions and quality of life. Secondary endpoints include AF symptom severity and burden score; time to first hospital admission; total unplanned days in hospital; total AF-related hospital admissions (including atrial flutter); total cardiac and noncardiac hospital admissions; total AF- or atrial flutter-related; cardiac- and noncardiac-related ED presentations; and all-cause mortality. An economic evaluation will also be performed. Clinical endpoints will be adjudicated by independent blinded assessors. Follow-up will be at 24 months.
CONCLUSIONS: This study will assess the efficacy of a home-based structured patient-centred educational intervention in patients with AF.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemonitoring for hypertensive disease in pregnancy.
Abstract: Introduction: Telemonitoring of hypertension in pregnancy is becoming increasingly common. Several small studies have described the potential benefits of patient-led remote monitoring, including fewer hospital visits, better blood pressure control, and cost savings. Areas covered: This review summarises the principles of prenatal remote monitoring of hypertension as well as the types of devices and applications currently in use. We summarise current evidence regarding the potential benefits and pitfalls with respect to outcomes for mothers, neonates and wider population health. Core topics for ongoing and future research are discussed, with special emphasis on feasibility and validation of technologies, methodological standardization, patient safety, privacy and acceptability, and health economics and governance. Expert opinion: Telemonitoring of hypertension in pregnancy is likely to become commonplace in the next five to ten years and research now must be directed to ensure it is used in the safest way before its general introduction into daily clinical practice can be recommended. Raising women's awareness of their health condition could improve both pregnancy and long-term health outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparing fly-in fly-out and telehealth models for delivering advanced-practice physiotherapy services in regional Queensland: An audit of outcomes and costs.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Recruitment of advanced-practice physiotherapists to regional and rural healthcare facilities in Queensland, Australia remains a challenge. To overcome this barrier, two different service delivery models (Fly-In, Fly-Out (FIFO), Telehealth) were trialled by one regional facility. This study aims to describe the economic- and service-related outcomes of these two methods of service delivery.
METHODS: A retrospective audit was conducted where two nine-week time periods were selected for each service delivery model. Outcomes of interests include patient demographics and case-mix, service utilisation, clinical actions, adverse events and costs. Net financial position for both models was calculated based upon costs incurred and revenue generated by service activity.
RESULTS: A total of 33 appointment slots were recorded for each service delivery model. Patient case-mix was variable, where the Telehealth model predominately involved patients with musculoskeletal spinal conditions managed from a neurosurgical waiting list. Appointment slot utilisation and pattern of referral for further investigations were similar between models. No safety incidents occurred in either service delivery model. An estimated cost-savings of 13% for the Telehealth model could be achieved when compared to the FIFO model.
DISCUSSION: Telehealth is a safe, efficient and viable option when compared to a traditional in-person outreach service, while providing cost-savings. Telehealth should be seen as a service delivery medium in which sustainable recruitment of advanced-practice physiotherapists to regional and rural healthcare facilities can be achieved.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of Telepsychiatry in Emergency and Crisis Intervention: Current Evidence.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The aim of this review is to evaluate recent literature on the use of telepsychiatry in mental crises or emergency situations.
RECENT FINDINGS: Results from recent studies which evaluated the implementation of a telepsychiatric consultation model in emergency departments point at a reduction of length of stay and a drop in admissions, increased cost-effectiveness, and improved satisfaction of patients and staff. There was almost no empirical evidence on videoconferencing in crisis intervention within the context of crisis resolution teams or online therapies. No study reporting on telepsychiatry videoconferencing in the context of disasters was found. There is still very little but increasing empirical evidence supporting the implementation of telepsychiatry in emergencies. Other mental crisis-related implementation settings remain to be researched. The implications and future research potential are discussed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Adverse event monitoring in mHealth for psychosis interventions provides an important opportunity for learning.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine for Allergy Services to Rural Communities.
Abstract: Telemedicine (TM) involves the use of technology to provide medical services to patients who live at a distance. It can be used asynchronously for interpretation of test results (spirometry, skin tests imaging studies), and for communication of information when the simultaneous presence of provider and patient is unnecessary. Synchronous encounters can either be unscheduled and initiated on demand by patients or be facilitated substitutes for in-person visits. The latter results in asthma outcomes that are as good as those for in-person visits while reducing the cost and inconvenience of travel from rural communities to urban centers. Facilitated visits can be done in the ambulatory and emergency department settings, and they can be used for inpatient consults when allergy specialists are not readily available. Both patients and providers experience high degrees of satisfaction with this type of visit. In addition, virtual visits performed using TM are cost-effective. TM offers a solution to the shortage of specialty care that is present in rural communities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Knowledge to action framework for home health monitoring.
Abstract: Chronic disease management is a grand challenge, both to the patients for optimal management and to the overall health system with cost utilization. Emerging research evidence suggests that Home Health Monitoring (HHM) using home-based, remoting monitoring technologies can improve the patients' quality of life, self-management, and achieve cost-effectiveness for the health system. How should HHM be introduced and integrated appropriately into the current healthcare delivery pathways to improve patient care and collect evidence of benefits simultaneously? The Knowledge to Action (KTA) framework is an effective approach in the implementation science literature to methodically guide the translation of evidence-based research findings into practice, putting knowledge into practical use. This article examines the use of the seven-step KTA model to address implementation facilitators and barriers of applying HHM in chronic disease management and then focus on its applicability on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as an example.
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost analysis comparing telepsychiatry to in-person psychiatric outreach and patient travel reimbursement in Northern Ontario communities.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Residents of Northern Ontario have limited access to local psychiatric care. To address this, three program models exist: (1) telepsychiatry; (2) psychiatrists traveling to underserved areas; and (3) reimbursing patients for travel to a psychiatrist. Evidence shows that telepsychiatry has comparable outcomes to in-person consultations. The objective of this study was to determine the cost difference between programs.
METHODS: A cost-minimization analysis estimating cost per visit from a public healthcare payer economic costing perspective was conducted. Data on fixed and variable costs were obtained. Evidence-based assumptions were made where relevant. Base-case scenarios and a break-even analysis were completed, as well as deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses, to explore the effects of parameter variability on program costs.
RESULTS: Costs per visit were lowest in telepsychiatry (CAD$360) followed by traveling physicians (CAD$558) and patient reimbursement (CAD$620). Among the 100,000 Monte Carlo simulations, results showed telepsychiatry was the least costly program in 71.2% of the simulations, while the reimbursement and outreach programs were least costly in 15.1% and 13.7% of simulations, respectively. The break-even analysis found telepsychiatry was the least costly program after an annual patient visit threshold of approximately 76 visits (compared to traveling psychiatrists) and 126 visits (compared to reimbursed patients).
DISCUSSION: Our analyses support telepsychiatry as the least costly program. These results have important implications for program planning, including the prioritization of telepsychiatry, increased integration of telepsychiatry with other modalities of outreach psychiatry, and limiting use of the patient remuneration program to where medically necessary, to reduce overall cost.
Label Included: 0

Title: The clinical utility of laboratory monitoring during isotretinoin therapy for acne and changes to monitoring practices over time.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: As a result of concerns about hypertriglyceridemia, liver enzyme abnormalities, and leukopenia during isotretinoin therapy for acne, patients are often monitored closely with routine laboratory assessments, although the value of this practice has been questioned.
METHODS: We conducted a cohort study of patients receiving isotretinoin for acne between January 1, 2008, and June 30, 2017, using the OptumInsights Electronic Health Record Database (Optum, Eden Prairie, MN) to evaluate the frequency of laboratory abnormalities. Poisson regression was used to evaluate for changes to the frequency of routine laboratory monitoring over time.
RESULTS: Among 1863 patients treated with isotretinoin, grade 3 or greater triglyceride and liver function testing abnormalities were noted in fewer than 1% and 0.5% of patients screened, respectively. No grade 3 or greater cholesterol or complete blood count abnormalities were observed. There were no meaningful changes in the frequency of laboratory monitoring over time.
LIMITATIONS: Limitations include that we are unable to evaluate the clinical notes to understand the exact clinical decision making when clinicians encountered abnormal laboratory values.
CONCLUSION: Although laboratory abnormalities are rare and often do not influence management, frequent laboratory monitoring remains a common practice. There are opportunities to improve the quality of care among patients being treated with isotretinoin for acne by reducing the frequency of lipid and liver function monitoring and by eliminating complete blood count monitoring.
Label Included: 0

Title: How do we evaluate the cost of nosocomial infection? The ECONI protocol: an incidence study with nested case-control evaluating cost and quality of life.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Healthcare-associated or nosocomial infection (HAI) is distressing to patients and costly for the National Health Service (NHS). With increasing pressure to demonstrate cost-effectiveness of interventions to control HAI and notwithstanding the risk from antimicrobial-resistant infections, there is a need to understand the incidence rates of HAI and costs incurred by the health system and for patients themselves.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The Evaluation of Cost of Nosocomial Infection study (ECONI) is an observational incidence survey with record linkage and a nested case-control study that will include postdischarge longitudinal follow-up and qualitative interviews. ECONI will be conducted in one large teaching hospital and one district general hospital in NHS Scotland. The case mix of these hospitals reflects the majority of overnight admissions within Scotland. An incidence survey will record all HAI cases using standard case definitions. Subsequent linkage to routine data sets will provide information on an admission cohort which will be grouped into HAI and non-HAI cases. The case-control study will recruit eligible patients who develop HAI and twice that number without HAI as controls. Patients will be asked to complete five questionnaires: the first during their stay, and four others during the year following discharge from their recruitment admission (1, 3, 6 and 12 months). Multiple data collection methods will include clinical case note review; patient-reported outcome; linkage to electronic health records and qualitative interviews. Outcomes collected encompass infection types; morbidity and mortality; length of stay; quality of life; healthcare utilisation; repeat admissions and postdischarge prescribing.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has received a favourable ethical opinion from the Scotland A Research Ethics Committee (reference 16/SS/0199). All publications arising from this study will be published in open-access peer-reviewed journal. Lay-person summaries will be published on the ECONI website.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03253640; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Text messaging support for patients with diabetes or coronary artery disease (SupportMe): protocol for a pragmatic randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Low-cost interventions providing self-management support are needed for people with coronary artery disease (CAD) and diabetes. Mobile phone text messaging provides a potential vehicle for this. The SupportMe Trial aims to assess the feasibility of embedding a text messaging programme into routine clinical practice and will determine if this improves cardiovascular risk factor and diabetes control among patients with CAD or type 2 diabetes.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: SupportMe is a randomised controlled trial to be conducted within the framework of a health district-wide integrated care programme for people with CAD or type 2 diabetes mellitus. One thousand subjects will be recruited, with at least 500 in each group. Intervention subjects will receive four text messages a week for 6 months, which provide advice, motivation, information and support for disease management and healthy behaviour. The primary outcome is systolic blood pressure at 6 months. Secondary outcomes include body mass index, waist circumference, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, physical activity levels, dietary intake, quality of life, mood and smoking cessation, and for subjects with diabetes, glycosylated haemoglobin and fasting serum glucose. A process and economic evaluation will also be conducted.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has been approved by the Western Sydney Local Health District Human Research Ethics Committee (AU RED HREC/16/WMEAD/331). Results will be disseminated via the scientific forums including peer-reviewed publications and presentations at national and international conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ACTRN12616001689460.
Label Included: 0

Title: Value of information analysis in telehealth for chronic heart failure management.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Value of information (VOI) analysis provides information on opportunity cost of a decision in healthcare by estimating the cost of reducing parametric uncertainty and quantifying the value of generating additional evidence. This study is an application of the VOI methodology to the problem of choosing between home telemonitoring and nurse telephone support over usual care in chronic heart failure management in the Netherlands.
METHODS: The expected value of perfect information (EVPI) and the expected value of partially perfect information (EVPPI) analyses were based on an informal threshold of €20K per quality-adjusted life-year. These VOI-analyses were applied to a probabilistic Markov model comparing the 20-year costs and effects in three interventions. The EVPPI explored the value of decision uncertainty caused by the following group of parameters: treatment-specific transition probabilities between New York Heart Association (NYHA) defined disease states, utilities associated with the disease states, number of hospitalizations and ER visits, health state specific costs, and the distribution of patients per NYHA group. We performed the analysis for two population sizes in the Netherlands-patients in all NYHA classes of severity, and patients in NYHA IV class only.
RESULTS: The population EVPI for an effective population of 2,841,567 CHF patients in All NYHA classes of severity over the next 20 years is more than €4.5B, implying that further research is highly cost-effective. In the NYHA IV only analysis, for the effective population of 208,003 patients over next 20 years, the population EVPI at the same informal threshold is approx. €590M. The EVPPI analysis showed that the only relevant group of parameters that contribute to the overall decision uncertainty are transition probabilities, in both All NYHA and NYHA IV analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of our VOI exercise show that the cost of uncertainty regarding the decision on reimbursement of telehealth interventions for chronic heart failure patients is high in the Netherlands, and that future research is needed, mainly on the transition probabilities.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Cost-Effectiveness of Digital Health Interventions on the Management of Cardiovascular Diseases: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: With the advancement in information technology and mobile internet, digital health interventions (DHIs) are improving the care of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). The impact of DHIs on cost-effective management of CVDs has been examined using the decision analytic model-based health technology assessment approach.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review of the decision analytic model-based studies evaluating the cost-effectiveness of DHIs on the management of CVDs.
METHODS: A literature review was conducted in Medline, Embase, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature Complete, PsycINFO, Scopus, Web of Science, Center for Review and Dissemination, and Institute for IEEE Xplore between 2001 and 2018. Studies were included if the following criteria were met: (1) English articles, (2) DHIs that promoted or delivered clinical interventions and had an impact on patients' cardiovascular conditions, (3) studies that were modeling works with health economic outcomes of DHIs for CVDs, (4) studies that had a comparative group for assessment, and (5) full economic evaluations including a cost-effectiveness analysis, cost-utility analysis, cost-benefit analysis, and cost-consequence analysis. The primary outcome collected was the cost-effectiveness of the DHIs, presented by incremental cost per additional quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The quality of each included study was evaluated using the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards.
RESULTS: A total of 14 studies met the defined criteria and were included in the review. Among the included studies, heart failure (7/14, 50%) and stroke (4/14, 29%) were two of the most frequent CVDs that were managed by DHIs. A total of 9 (64%) studies were published between 2015 and 2018 and 5 (36%) published between 2011 and 2014. The time horizon was ≤1 year in 3 studies (21%), >1 year in 10 studies (71%), and 1 study (7%) did not declare the time frame. The types of devices or technologies used to deliver the health interventions were short message service (1/14, 7%), telephone support (1/14, 7%), mobile app (1/14, 7%), video conferencing system (5/14, 36%), digital transmission of physiologic data (telemonitoring; 5/14, 36%), and wearable medical device (1/14, 7%). The DHIs gained higher QALYs with cost saving in 43% (6/14) of studies and gained QALYs at a higher cost at acceptable incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in 57% (8/14) of studies. The studies were classified as excellent (0/14, 0%), good (9/14, 64%), moderate (4/14, 29%), and low (1/14, 7%) quality.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first systematic review of decision analytic model-based cost-effectiveness analyses of DHIs in the management of CVDs. Most of the identified studies were published recently, and the majority of the studies were good quality cost-effectiveness analyses with an adequate duration of time frame. All the included studies found the DHIs to be cost-effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: International experiences in multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) for evaluating orphan drugs: a scoping review.
Abstract: Introduction: Orphan diseases are low-prevalence conditions with chronically debilitating or life-threatening consequences. Their treatments are generally called orphan drugs (OD). Health-technology assessment processes have traditionally considered cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA), when making reimbursement and pricing decisions for health-care plans. Valuing OD with standard CEA raises important issues due to uncertain evidence, inability to meet cost-effectiveness thresholds for reimbursement and high budget impact, among others. Multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) allows to overcome these issues and improve the technical and ethical quality of decisions regarding prioritization, coverage, and reimbursement of OD. Areas covered: A scoping review was conducted in order to characterize MCDA frameworks for assessing OD and implementation experiences. We reviewed electronic databases (Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, EBSCO, CINAHL, EconLit, Web of Science, LILACS, Google Scholar) key journals (Orphanet Journal of Rare Diseases and Value in Health) and organization repositories. Expert opinion: The theoretical framework for MCDA considers areas related to characteristics of orphan diseases and their technologies' clinical and economic impact. Participation processes are critical in incorporating societal values in weighting different dimensions and constructing decision rules. Local implementation pilots considering different stakeholders are necessary in order to pinpoint specific barriers and opportunities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical, fiscal and environmental benefits of a specialist-led virtual ureteric colic clinic: a prospective study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical, fiscal and environmental impact of a specialist-led acute ureteric colic virtual clinic (VC) pathway.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients with uncomplicated acute ureteric colic, referred to a single tertiary centre, were prospectively entered into the study over a 4-year period (January 2015-December 2018). Inclusion criteria were: low-dose non-contrast computed tomography of kidneys, ureters and bladder; white blood cell count <16 × 109/L; pain controlled; normal renal function; and no clinical concern. Primary outcomes were: time (days) from referral to VC outcome; VC outcome (discharge, further VC, face-to-face [FTF] clinic, extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy [ESWL], ureterorenoscopy [URS], percutaneous nephrolithotomy [PCNL]); and adverse events (sepsis or obstruction). Secondary outcomes were patient and stone demographics, cost and environmental analysis. The minimum follow-up was 3 months.
RESULTS: A total of 1008 patients entered the study, of whom 91.5% (n = 922) were of working age. The median (interquartile range) time from presentation to VC outcome was 2 (4) days. VC outcomes were as follows: 16.3% of patients (n = 164) were discharged; 18.2% (n = 183) were discharged after further VC; 17.2% (n = 173) underwent an intervention; and 48.4% (n = 488) were referred to an FTF clinic. Interventions comprised: PCNL 0.5% (n = 5); ESWL 7.7% (n = 78); and URS 8.9% (n = 90). Stone demographics were as follows: 570 patients (56.5%) had lower, 157 (15.6%) had upper, 96 (9.5%) had mid-ureteric and 163 (16.2%) had renal calculi, and in 22 patients (2.2%) the stones had recently passed. The mean (sd) stone size was 3.5 (2.3) mm. Two adverse events (0.2%) were reported. Introducing a VC saved £145,152 for Clinical Commissioning Groups, the equivalent NHS tariff payment of performing 106 URS procedures or 211 ureteric stent insertions. Overall, 15,085 patient journey kilometres were avoided, equal to 0.70-2.93 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent production and the need to plant 14.7 trees to achieve carbon balance.
CONCLUSION: A specialist-led acute ureteric colic VC reduced time to treatment decision to a median of 2 days. This creates additional clinic capacity and reduces the fiscal burden of traditional clinics and their associated carbon footprint.
Label Included: 0

Title: Decision Models for Assessing the Cost Effectiveness of Treatments for Pediatric Drug-Resistant Epilepsy: A Systematic Review of Economic Evaluations.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Drug-resistant epilepsy affects about one-third of children with epilepsy and is associated with high costs to the healthcare system, yet the cost effectiveness of most treatments is unclear. Use of cannabis-based products for epilepsy is increasing, and the cost effectiveness of such strategies relative to conventional pharmacologic treatments must be considered.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this systematic review was to identify economic evaluations of cannabis-based treatments for pediatric drug-resistant epilepsy. We also sought to identify and appraise decision models that have been used in economic evaluations of pharmacologic treatments (i.e., antiepileptic drugs) in this population.
METHODS: Electronic searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane library, as well as a targeted grey literature search, were undertaken (11 June 2018). Model-based full economic evaluations involving cannabis-based treatments or pharmacologic treatments for drug-resistant epilepsy in children were eligible for inclusion. Two independent reviewers selected studies for inclusion, and study quality was assessed by use of the Drummond and Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklists. Study findings, as well as model characteristics, are narratively summarized.
RESULTS: Nine economic evaluations involving children with drug-resistant epilepsy were identified; however, none involved cannabis-based treatments. All studies involved pharmacologic treatments compared with other pharmacologic treatments or non-pharmacologic treatments (i.e., ketogenic diet, epilepsy surgery, vagus nerve stimulation). Few studies have assessed the cost effectiveness of pharmacologic treatments in specific drug-resistant epilepsy syndromes, including Dravet and Lennox-Gastaut syndromes. Five included studies involved use of Markov models with a similar structure (i.e., health states based on seizure frequency relative to baseline). There was a wide range of methodological quality, and few studies fully addressed context-specific issues such as weight gain and treatment switching.
CONCLUSION: Whether cannabis-based treatments for pediatric drug-resistant epilepsy represent good value for money has yet to be investigated. Economic evaluations of such treatments are needed and should address issues of particular importance in pediatric epilepsy, including weight gain over time, switching or discontinuation of treatments, effectiveness of interventions and comparators, and long-term effectiveness beyond the duration of available clinical studies.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION: CRD42018099591.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Messaging Support Versus Usual Care for People With Type 2 Diabetes on Glycemic Control: Protocol for a Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Health outcomes for people treated for type 2 diabetes could be substantially improved in sub-Saharan Africa. Failure to take medicine regularly to treat diabetes has been identified as a major problem. Resources to identify and support patients who are not making the best use of medicine in low- and middle-income settings are scarce. Mobile phones are widely available in these settings, including among people with diabetes; linked technologies, such as short message service (SMS) text messaging, have shown promise in delivering low-cost interventions efficiently. However, evidence showing that these interventions will work when carried out at a larger scale and measuring the extent to which they will improve health outcomes when added to usual care is limited.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this trial is to test the effectiveness of sending brief, automated SMS text messages for improving health outcomes and medication adherence in patients with type 2 diabetes compared to an active control.
METHODS: We will carry out a randomized trial recruiting from clinics in two contrasting settings in sub-Saharan Africa: Cape Town, South Africa, and Lilongwe, Malawi. Intervention messages will advise people about the benefits of their diabetes treatment and offer motivation and encouragement around lifestyle and use of medication. We allocated patients, using randomization with a minimization algorithm, to receive either three to four intervention messages per week or non-health-related messages every 6 weeks. We will follow up with participants for 12 months, measuring important risk factors for poor health outcomes and complications in diabetes. This will enable us to estimate potential health benefits, including the primary outcome of hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels as a marker for long-term blood glucose control and a secondary outcome of blood pressure control. We will record the costs of performing these activities and estimate cost-effectiveness. We will also use process evaluation to capture the collection of medication and assess the reception of the intervention by participants and health care workers.
RESULTS: Recruitment to the trial began in September 2016 and follow-up of participants was completed in October 2018. Data collection from electronic health records and other routinely collected sources is continuing. The database lock is anticipated in June 2019, followed by analysis and disclosing of group allocation.
CONCLUSIONS: The knowledge gained from this study will have wide applications and advance the evidence base for effectiveness of mobile phone-based, brief text messaging on clinical outcomes and in large-scale, operational settings. It will provide evidence for cost-effectiveness and acceptability that will further inform policy development and decision making. We will work with a wide network that includes patients, clinicians, academics, industry, and policy makers to help us identify opportunities for informing people about the work and raise awareness of what is being developed and studied.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Registry ISRCTN70768808; http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN70768808 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/786316Zqk).
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/12377.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Health Adoption in Mental Health: User Experience of a Mobile Health App for Patients With an Eating Disorder.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite the worldwide growth in mobile health (mHealth) tools and the possible benefits for both patients and health care providers, the overall adoption levels of mHealth tools by health professionals remain relatively low.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed (1) to investigate attitudes of health care providers and mHealth experts toward mHealth tools in the health context in general, and this study aimed (2) to test the acceptability and feasibility of a specific mHealth tool for patients with an eating disorder (ED), called TCApp, among patients and ED specialists.
METHODS: To this purpose, we conducted an explorative qualitative study with 4 in-depth group discussions with several groups of stakeholders: our first focus group was conducted with 11 experts on mHealth from the Catalan Association of Health Entities; the second focus group included 10 health care professionals from the Spanish College of Doctors of Barcelona; the third focus group involved 9 patients with an ED who had used the TCApp over a 12-week period, and the fourth and last focus group involved 8 ED specialists who had monitored such ED patients on the Web.
RESULTS: The focus groups showed that health care providers and mHealth experts reported barriers for mHealth adoption more often than facilitators, indicating that mHealth techniques are difficult to obtain and use. Most barriers were attributed to external factors relating to the human or organizational environment (ie, lack of time because of workload, lack of direct interest on a legislative or political level) rather than being attributed to internal factors relating to individual obstacles. The results of the mHealth intervention study indicate that the TCApp was considered as easy to use and useful, although patients and the ED specialists monitoring them on the Web reported different adoption problems, such as the inability to personalize the app, a lack of motivational and interactive components, or difficulties in adhering to the study protocol.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, this paper indicates that both health professionals and patients foresee difficulties that need to be addressed before comprehensive adoption and usage of mHealth techniques can be effectively implemented. Such findings are in line with previous studies, suggesting that although they acknowledge their possible benefits and cost-effectiveness, health care providers are quite resistant and conservative about integrating mHealth technologies in their daily practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: What is the impact of large-scale implementation of stroke Early Supported Discharge? A mixed methods realist evaluation study protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stroke Early Supported Discharge (ESD) is a service innovation that facilitates discharge from hospital and delivery of specialist rehabilitation in patients' homes. There is currently widespread implementation of ESD services in many countries, driven by robust clinical trial evidence. In England, the type of ESD service patients receive on the ground is variable, and in some regions, ESD is still not offered at all. This protocol presents a study designed to investigate the mechanisms and outcomes of implementing ESD at scale in real-world conditions. This will help to establish which models of ESD are most effective and in what context.
METHODS: A realist evaluation approach composed of two interlinking work packages will be adopted to investigate how and why ESD works, for whom and in what circumstances. Work package 1 (WP1) will begin with a rapid evidence synthesis to formulate preliminary realist hypotheses. Quantitative analyses of historical prospective Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) data will be performed to evaluate service outcomes based on the degree to which evidence-based ESD has been implemented. Work package 2 (WP2) will involve the qualitative investigation of purposively selected case study sites featuring in WP1 and covering different regions in England. The perspectives of clinicians, managers, commissioners, and service users will be explored qualitatively. Cost implications of ESD models will be examined using a cost-consequence analysis. Cross-case comparisons and triangulation of the data sources from both work packages will be performed to test, revise, and refine initial programme theories and address research aims.
DISCUSSION: This study will investigate whether and how current large-scale implementation of ESD is achieving the outcomes suggested by the evidence base. The theory-driven evaluation approach will highlight key mechanisms and contextual conditions necessary to optimise outcomes and allow us to draw transferable lessons to inform the effective implementation and sustainability of ESD in clinical practice. In addition, the methodological framework will progress the theoretical understanding of implementation and evaluation of complex rehabilitation interventions in stroke care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN: 15568163, registration date: 26 October 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Determinants of Cost Variation in Total Hip and Knee Arthroplasty: Implications for Alternative Payment Models.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Alternative payment models have been proposed to deliver high-quality, cost-effective care. Under these models, payments may be shared between the hospital and the post-acute care services. Post-acute care services may account for one-third of the episode costs for total hip or knee arthroplasty (THA/TKA). Because hospitals or episode initiators bear notable financial risks in these payment models with minimal risk adjustment for complexity, it has been suggested these models may lead to prospective selection of healthier and younger patients. Studies evaluating the effect of patient demographics, medical complexity, and surgical characteristics on the cost of index hospitalization have been limited. We aimed to (1) quantify the impact of patient demographics, medical complexity, and surgical characteristics (type of anesthesia and operating time) on variation in direct cost of index hospitalization and (2) examine the association of these characteristics with discharge with home health services or to rehabilitation facility.
METHODS: Retrospective study of 3,542 patients admitted to our hospital for elective THA/TKA between 2012 and 2017. Multivariable generalized estimating equations were used for analysis.
RESULTS: Patient demographics and medical complexity accounted for 6.2% (THA) and 5.6% (TKA) of variation in direct cost of index hospitalization. Surgical characteristics accounted for 37.1% (THA) and 35.3% (TKA) of the cost variation. One thousand one hundred eighty-three (53.4%) patients were discharged with home health services, and 1,237 (29.4%) were discharged to rehabilitation facility. Patient demographics and higher medical complexity were markedly associated with discharge with home health services or to rehabilitation facility after THA/TKA.
DISCUSSION: Patient demographics and medical complexity had minimal impact on variation in direct cost of index hospitalization for elective THA/TKA compared with surgical characteristics but were markedly associated with discharge with home health services or to rehabilitation facility. Having additional risk adjustment in these payment models could mitigate concerns about access to care for higher risk, higher cost patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: The number needed to benefit: estimating the value of predictive analytics in healthcare.
Abstract: Predictive analytics in health care has generated increasing enthusiasm recently, as reflected in a rapidly growing body of predictive models reported in literature and in real-time embedded models using electronic health record data. However, estimating the benefit of applying any single model to a specific clinical problem remains challenging today. Developing a shared framework for estimating model value is therefore critical to facilitate the effective, safe, and sustainable use of predictive tools into the future. We highlight key concepts within the prediction-action dyad that together are expected to impact model benefit. These include factors relevant to model prediction (including the number needed to screen) as well as those relevant to the subsequent action (number needed to treat). In the simplest terms, a number needed to benefit contextualizes the numbers needed to screen and treat, offering an opportunity to estimate the value of a clinical predictive model in action.
Label Included: 0

Title: Within trial cost-utility analysis of disease management program for patients hospitalized with atrial fibrillation: results from the SAFETY trial.
Abstract: Background: The potential impact of disease management to optimize quality of care, health outcomes, and total healthcare costs across a range of cardiac disease states is unknown. Methods: A trial-based cost-utility analysis was conducted alongside a randomized controlled trial of 335 patients with chronic, non-valvular AF (without heart failure; the SAFETY Trial) discharged to home from three tertiary referral hospitals in Australia. A home-based disease management intervention (the SAFETY intervention) that involved community-based AF care including home visits was compared to routine primary healthcare and hospital outpatient follow-up (standard management). Bootstrapped incremental cost-utility ratios were computed based on quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and total healthcare costs. Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were constructed to explore the probability of the SAFETY intervention being cost-effective. Sub-group analyses were performed based on age and sex to determine differential cost-effectiveness. Results: During median follow-up of 1.75 years, the SAFETY intervention was associated with a non-statistically significant increase in QALYs (0.02 per person) and lower total healthcare costs (-$4,375 per person). Although each of these findings were not statistically significant, the SAFETY intervention was found to be dominant (more effective and cost saving) in 58.8% of the bootstrapped iterations and cost-effective (more effective and gains in QALYs achieved at or below $50,000 per QALY gained) in 61.5% of the iterations. Males and those aged less than 78 years achieved greater gains in QALYs and savings in healthcare costs. The estimated value of perfect information in Australia (the monetized value of removing uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness results) was A$51 million, thus demonstrating the high potential gain from further research. Conclusions: Compared with standard management, the SAFETY intervention is potentially a dominant strategy for those with chronic, non-valvular AF. However, there would be substantial value in reducing the uncertainty in these estimates from further research.
Label Included: 0

Title: Alternative Ready-To-Use Therapeutic Food Yields Less Recovery Than the Standard for Treating Acute Malnutrition in Children From Ghana.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Only 20% of children with severe acute malnutrition (SAM) have access to ready-to-use therapeutic food (RUTF), and RUTF cost limits its accessibility.
METHODS: This randomized, double-blind controlled study involved a clinical equivalence trial comparing the effectiveness of an alternative RUTF with standard RUTF in the home-based treatment of uncomplicated SAM and moderate malnutrition in Ghanaian children aged 6 to 59 months. The primary outcome was recovery, equivalence was defined as being within 5 percentage points of the control group, and an intention-to-treat analysis was used. Alternative RUTF was composed of whey protein, soybeans, peanuts, sorghum, milk, sugar, and vegetable oil. Standard RUTF included peanuts, milk, sugar, and vegetable oil. The cost of alternative RUTF ingredients was 14% less than standard RUTF. Untargeted metabolomics was used to characterize the bioactive metabolites in the RUTFs.
RESULTS: Of the 1,270 children treated for SAM or moderate malnutrition, 554 of 628 (88%) receiving alternative RUTF recovered (95% confidence interval [CI]=85% to 90%) and 516 of 642 (80%) receiving standard RUTF recovered (95% CI=77% to 83%). The difference in recovery was 7.7% (95% CI=3.7% to 11.7%). Among the 401 children with SAM, the recovery rate was 130 of 199 (65%) with alternative RUTF and 156 of 202 (77%) with standard RUTF (P=.01). The default rate in SAM was 60 of 199 (30%) for alternative RUTF and 41 of 202 (20%) for standard RUTF (P=.04). Children enrolled with SAM who received alternative RUTF had less daily weight gain than those fed standard RUTF (2.4 ± 2.4 g/kg vs. 2.9 ± 2.6 g/kg, respectively; P<.05). Among children with moderate wasting, recovery rates were lower for alternative RUTF, 386 of 443 (87%), than standard RUTF, 397 of 426 (93%) (P=.003). More isoflavone metabolites were found in alternative RUTF than in the standard.
CONCLUSION: The lower-cost alternative RUTF was less effective than standard RUTF in the treatment of severe and moderate malnutrition in Ghana.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Shared Telemedicine Appointments in Young Adults With T1D: CoYoT1 Trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Young adults with type 1 diabetes (T1D) often struggle to achieve glycemic control and maintain routine clinic visits. We aimed to evaluate the societal cost-effectiveness of the Colorado young adults with T1D (CoYoT1) Clinic, an innovative care model of shared medical appointments through home telehealth.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Patients self-selected into the CoYoT1 (N = 42) or usual care (N = 39) groups.
RESULTS: Within the trial, we found no significant differences in 9-month quality-adjusted life; however, the control group had a larger decline from baseline in utility than the CoYoT1 group, indicating a quality of life (QoL) benefit of the intervention (difference in difference mean ± SD: 0.04 ± 0.09; P = 0.03). There was no significant difference in total costs. The CoYoT1 group had more study-related visits but fewer nonstudy office visits and hospitalizations. CONCLUSIONS: The CoYoT1 care model may help young adults with T1D maintain a higher QoL with no increase in costs.
Label Included: 1

Title: M-SAKHI-Mobile health solutions to help community providers promote maternal and infant nutrition and health using a community-based cluster randomized controlled trial in rural India: A study protocol.
Abstract: Reduction of childhood stunting is difficult to achieve by interventions that focus only on improving nutrition during infancy. Comprehensive interventions that extend through the continuum of care from pregnancy to infancy are needed. Mobile phones are now successfully being used for behaviour change communication to improve health. We present the methodology of an mHealth intervention "Mobile Solutions Aiding Knowledge for Health Improvement" (M-SAKHI) to be delivered by rural community health workers or Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) for rural women, below or up to 20 weeks of pregnancy through delivery until their infant is 12 months of age. This protocol paper describes the cluster randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness of M-SAKHI. The primary objective of the trial is to reduce the prevalence of stunting (height-for-age < -2 z-score) in children at 18 months of age by 8% in the intervention as compared with control. The secondary objectives include evaluating the impact on maternal dietary diversity, birth weight, infant and young child feeding practices, infant development, and child morbidity, along with a range of intermediate outcomes for maternal, neonatal, and infant health. A total of 297 ASHAs, five trained counsellors, and 2,501 participants from 244 villages are participating in this study. The outcome data are being collected by 51 field research officers. This study will provide evidence regarding the efficacy of M-SAKHI to reduce stunting in young children in rural India, and if effective, the cost-effectiveness of M-SAKHI.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine infectious diseases consultations and clinical outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine use is increasing in many specialties, but its impact on clinical outcomes in infectious diseases has not been systematically studied and reviewed. The proposed systematic review will evaluate the current evidence regarding the effect of telemedicine infectious diseases consultation on a range of clinical outcomes, including mortality, hospital readmission, antimicrobial use, and cost.
METHOD/DESIGN: Standard systematic review methodology will be used, with searches of Ovid MEDLINE 1946-, https://embase.com/ 1947-, Scopus 1823-, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), and https://clinicaltrials.gov/ 1997-. There will be no restriction on language or year of publication. The primary outcome will be 30-day all-cause mortality and secondary outcomes will include readmission within 30 days after discharge from an initial hospitalization with an infection, patient compliance/adherence, patient satisfaction, cost or cost effectiveness, length of hospital stay, antimicrobial use, and antimicrobial stewardship. Bias will be assessed using standard Cochrane methodologies. Data will be grouped by outcome and narratively synthesized. Meta-analysis will be performed for outcomes with clinical or methodological homogeneity. The systematic review and meta-analysis will be registered through PROSPERO. Pre-planned subgroup analyses will be detailed.
DISCUSSION: A number of studies have documented the feasibility of telemedicine for infectious diseases, but a synthesis of clinical outcomes data with telemedicine infectious diseases consultation has not been performed. This systematic review will analyze many clinical outcomes of telemedicine infectious diseases consultation. The findings of this study will add to established literature about feasibility of telemedicine consultation by synthesizing the evidence for clinical effectiveness.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42018105225.
Label Included: 0

Title: Valuing Citizen Access to Digital Health Services: Applied Value-Based Outcomes in the Canadian Context and Tools for Modernizing Health Systems.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In publicly funded health systems, digital health technologies are strategies that aim to improve the quality and safety of health care service delivery and enhance patient experiences and outcomes. In Canada, governments and health organizations have invested in digital health technologies such as personal health records (PHRs) and other electronic service functionalities and innovation across provincial and territorial health systems.
OBJECTIVE: Patients' access to their own information via secure, Web-based PHRs and integrated virtual care services are promising mechanisms for supporting patient engagement in health care. We draw on current evidence to develop an economic model that estimates the demonstrated and potential value of these digital health initiatives.
METHODS: We first synthesized results from a variety of Canadian and international studies on the outcomes for patients and service providers associated with PHRs across a continuum of services, ranging from viewing information (eg, laboratory results) on the Web to electronic prescription renewal to email or video conferencing with care teams and providers. We then developed a quantitative model of estimated value, grounded in these demonstrated benefits and citizen use (2016-2017). In addition to estimating the costs saved from patient and system perspectives, we used a novel application of a compensating differential approach to assess the value (independent of costs) to society of improved health and well-being resulting from PHR use.
RESULTS: Patients' access to a range of digital PHR functions generated value for Canadians and health systems by increasing health system productivity, and improving access to and quality of health care provided. As opportunities increased to interact and engage with health care providers via PHR functions, the marginal value generated by utilization of PHR functionalities also increased. Web-based prescription renewal generated the largest share of the total current value from the patient perspective. From the health systems perspective, Canadians' ability to view their information on the Web was the largest value share. If PHRs were to be implemented with more integrated virtual care services, the value generated from populations with chronic illnesses such as severe and persistent mental illness and diabetes could amount to between Can $800 million and Can $1 billion per year across Canadian health systems.
CONCLUSIONS: PHRs with higher interactivity could yield substantial potential value from wider implementation in Canada and increased adoption rates in certain target groups-namely, high-frequency health system users and their caregivers. Further research is needed to tie PHR use to health outcomes across PHR functions, care settings, and patient populations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Complementing a Clinical Trial With Human-Computer Interaction: Patients' User Experience With Telehealth.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The use of telehealth to monitor patients from home is on the rise. Telehealth technology is evaluated in a clinical trial with measures of health outcomes and cost-effectiveness. However, what happens between a technology and the patients is not investigated during a clinical trial-the telehealth technology remains as a "black box." Meanwhile, three decades of research in the discipline of human-computer interaction (HCI) presents design, implementation, and evaluation of technologies with a primary emphasis on users. HCI research has exposed the importance of user experience (UX) as an essential part of technology development and evaluation.
OBJECTIVE: This research investigates the UX of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) with a telehealth in-home monitoring device to manage T2D from home. We investigate how the UX during a clinical trial can be researched and what a clinical trial can learn from HCI research.
METHODS: We adopted an ethnographic philosophy and conducted a contextual inquiry due to time limitations followed by semistructured interviews of 9 T2D patients. We defined the method as Clinical User-experience Evaluation (CUE). The patients were enrolled in a telehealth clinical trial of T2D; however, this research was an independent study conducted by information technologists and health researchers for a user-centered evaluation of telehealth.
RESULTS: Key analytical findings were that patients valued the benefits of in-home monitoring, but the current device did not possess all functionalities that patients wanted. The results include patients' experiences and emotions while using the device, patients' perceived benefits of the device, and how patients domesticated the device. Further analysis showed the influence of the device on patients' awareness, family involvement, and design implications for telehealth for T2D.
CONCLUSIONS: HCI could complement telehealth clinical trials and uncover knowledge about T2D patients' UX and future design implications. Through HCI we can look into the "black box" phenomenon of clinical trials and create patient-centered telehealth solutions.
Label Included: 0

Title: An evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of the different palliative care models available to cancer patients in Turkey.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Three different models are commonly used to provide palliative care services to cancer patients in Turkey: comprehensive palliative care center (CPCC), hospital inpatient services (HIS) and home healthcare (HHC).
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of three alternative palliative care models for cancer patients.
METHODS: The study included a total of 160 patients diagnosed with cancer (CPCC:60, HIS:59, HHC:41). The patients' quality of life and their levels of satisfaction were used as the indicators of effectiveness, while direct and indirect costs incurred by service providers, patients and relatives were considered in estimating the costs of alternative models. The cost and effectiveness of the alternatives compared the "patient perspective" and "societal perspective" separately.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective, palliative care services provided the HIS model was found to be more cost-effective than the CPCC model. From a patient perspective, HHC was found to be more cost-effective compared to the other two models.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has the potential to provide substantial evidence to health managers and decision-makers with respect to health planning and the formulation of social security policies in Turkey.
Label Included: 0

Title: Work-Related Opportunity Costs Of Providing Unpaid Family Care In 2013 And 2050.
Abstract: Older Americans living in the community who need help with functional limitations overwhelmingly rely on unpaid care, which is often provided by working-age family members. This study assessed the impact of unpaid family caregiving on the likelihood of working and hours worked for caregivers and calculated the related cost of forgone earnings in 2013 and 2050. The current economic cost is about $67 billion, which by midcentury will likely double to $132-$147 billion, fueled primarily by the growth of the disabled older population and the increased share of better-educated caregivers. Average opportunity cost per caregiver will likely increase by 8-20 percent and per US resident by 54-72 percent. Future policy action could benefit from accounting fully for the economic costs in addition to the benefits of unpaid caregiving, which would help better define the scope and size of programs needed to support caregivers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pharmacist-Initiated Pre-Emptive Pharmacogenetic Panel Testing with Clinical Decision Support in Primary Care: Record of PGx Results and Real-World Impact.
Abstract: Logistics and (cost-)effectiveness of pharmacogenetic (PGx)-testing may be optimized when delivered through a pre-emptive panel-based approach, within a clinical decision support system (CDSS). Here, clinical recommendations are automatically deployed by the CDSS when a drug-gene interaction (DGI) is encountered. However, this requires record of PGx-panel results in the electronic medical record (EMR). Several studies indicate promising clinical utility of panel-based PGx-testing in polypharmacy and psychiatry, but is undetermined in primary care. Therefore, we aim to quantify both the feasibility and the real-world impact of this approach in primary care. Within a prospective pilot study, community pharmacists were provided the opportunity to request a panel of eight pharmacogenes to guide drug dispensing within a CDSS for 200 primary care patients. In this side-study, this cohort was cross-sectionally followed-up after a mean of 2.5-years. PGx-panel results were successfully recorded in 96% and 68% of pharmacist and general practitioner (GP) EMRs, respectively. This enabled 97% of patients to (re)use PGx-panel results for at least one, and 33% for up to four newly initiated prescriptions with possible DGIs. A total of 24.2% of these prescriptions had actionable DGIs, requiring pharmacotherapy adjustment. Healthcare utilization seemed not to vary among those who did and did not encounter a DGI. Pre-emptive panel-based PGx-testing is feasible and real-world impact is substantial in primary care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using a continuum of hybrid effectiveness-implementation studies to put research-tested colorectal screening interventions into practice.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Few previous studies have applied the hybrid effectiveness-implementation design framework to illustrate the way in which an intervention was progressively implemented and evaluated across multiple studies in diverse settings.
METHODS: We describe the design components and methodologies of three studies that sought to improve rates of colorectal cancer (CRC) screening using mailed outreach, and apply domains put forth by Curran et al.: research aims, research questions, comparison conditions, sample, evaluation methods, measures, and potential challenges. The Hybrid 1 study (emphasis on effectiveness) was a patient-level randomized trial of a mailed fecal test and stepped phone-outreach intervention program delivered in an integrated healthcare system (21 clinics, 4673 patients). The primary outcome was effectiveness (CRC screening uptake). Implementation outcomes included cost-effectiveness and acceptability. The Hybrid 2 study (shared emphasis on effectiveness and implementation) was a pragmatic cluster-randomized trial of mailed fecal immunochemical test (FIT) outreach implemented at safety net clinics (26 clinics, 41,000 patients). The intervention used electronic health record tools (adapted from Hybrid 1) and clinic personnel to deliver the intervention. Outcomes included effectiveness (FIT completion) and implementation (FIT kits delivered, clinic barriers and facilitators, cost-effectiveness). Hybrid 3 study (emphasis on implementation) is a demonstration project being conducted by two Medicaid/Medicare insurance plans (2 states, 12,000 patients) comparing two strategies for implementing mailed FIT programs that addressed Hybrid 2 implementation barriers. Outcomes include implementation (activities delivered, barriers) and effectiveness (FIT completion).
RESULTS: The effectiveness-implementation typology successfully identified a number of distinguishing features between the three studies. Two additional features, program design and program delivery, varied across our studies, and we propose adding them to the current typology. Program design and program delivery reflect the process by which and by whom a program is designed and delivered (e.g., research staff vs. clinic/health plan staff).
CONCLUSIONS: We describe three studies that demonstrate the hybrid effectiveness to implementation continuum and make recommendations for expanding the hybrid typology to include new descriptive features. Additional comparisons of Hybrid 1, 2, and 3 studies may help confirm whether our hybrid typology refinements are generalizable markers of the pipeline from research to practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Effects of Preventive Home Visits on Older People's Use of Health Care and Social Services and Related Costs.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: We use data from a randomized controlled trial on preventive home visits exploring effectiveness on health-related quality of life. In this article, we examine the intervention's cost-effectiveness and effects on quality-adjusted life years in older home-dwelling adults.
METHODS: There were 422 independently home-dwelling participants in the randomized, controlled trial, all aged more than 75 years, with equal numbers in the control and intervention groups. The intervention took place in a municipality in Finland and consisted of multiprofessional preventive home visits. We gathered the data on health care and social services use from central registers and medical records during 1 year before the intervention and 2 years after the intervention. We analyzed the total health care and social services use and costs per person-years and the difference in change in health-related quality of life as measured using the 15D measure. We calculated quality-adjusted life years and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in baseline use of services or in the total use and costs of health care and social services during the 2-year follow-up between the two groups. In the intervention group, health-related quality of life declined significantly more slowly compared with the control group (-0.015), but there was no significant difference in quality-adjusted life years gained between the groups. The cost-effectiveness plane showed 60% of incremental cost-effectiveness ratios lying in the dominant quadrant, representing additional effects with lower costs.
CONCLUSIONS: This multiprofessional preventive home visit intervention appears to have positive effects on health-related quality of life without accruing additional costs.
THE CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ACTRN12616001411437.
Label Included: 0

Title: Adjusted cost analysis of video televisits for the care of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: We previously reported our amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) video televisit experience. Here we report on video televisit versus in-clinic costs, adjusting for perceived medical usefulness (MU).
METHODS: We take the patient-perspective and a focused institutional-perspective. Costs are adjusted for patient/caregiver and physician perceptions of visit MU. The base-case reflects our outpatient ALS practice.
RESULTS: In the base-case, from the patient perspective, in-clinic visits cost $1,116 and video televisits cost $89 ($119 after MU-adjustment). From the institutional perspective, clinic visits cost $799, and video televisits cost $354 ($472 after MU-adjustment). Adjusted cost-savings per televisit are $997 (patient) and $327 (institution). Sensitivity analyses on 5 variables accounted for uncertainty in base-case assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Video televisits provide marked adjusted cost-savings for patients and institutions. Adjusted costs are sensitive to perceived MU of video televisits. Future research should explore the ability of video televisits to reduce healthcare resource usage. Muscle Nerve 60: 147-154, 2019.
Label Included: 0

Title: Promoting Effective Communication with Limited English Proficient Families: Implementation of Video Remote Interpreting as Part of a Comprehensive Language Services Program in a Children's Hospital.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: The aim of this study was to evaluate the process of implementing video remote interpreting (VRI) in a hospital already using in-person and over-the-phone interpreting (OPI), including the impact on utilization of language services, efficiency, and costs, as well as implementation challenges.
METHODS: A prospective program-evaluation design was used. From 2012 to 2017, 165 VRI carts and iPads were rolled out in clinics, inpatient wards, and the emergency department. Each area was supported for six weeks with training and problem-solving issues. Additional VRI rollouts occurred in groups, every two to four months. Outcomes were assessed using utilization and observation/interview data.
RESULTS: Postimplementation, 50,611 VRI encounters occurred for a total of 556,938 interpretation minutes. OPI decreased by 37.5%. Mean wait time for language services fell from 60 to 5 minutes. Rapid VRI uptake (> 10,000 VRI minutes in Year 1) occurred in clinics previously lacking access to in-person interpreters. VRI was associated with in-person interpreters having more time for professional development activities and with five promotions. Implementation challenges included initial resistance to VRI use, device connectivity problems, and six months' lead-in time to establish proper VRI use. Challenges were overcome through ongoing education, dialogue, and implementation rounds.
CONCLUSION: After overcoming initial challenges, VRI implementation, as part of provision of comprehensive language services, can potentially yield several benefits, including immediate extensive use, decreased OPI, reduced wait times for language services, rapid uptake in clinics previously lacking in-person interpreter access, and increased average minutes per encounter by in-person interpreters.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Mobile Lifestyle Management Program (GlycoLeap) for People With Type 2 Diabetes: Single-Arm Feasibility Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Singapore's current prevalence of diabetes exceeds 13.6%. Although lifestyle modification can be effective for reducing the risks for complications of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), traditional lifestyle interventions are often difficult to administer in the primary care setting due to limited resources. Mobile health apps can address these limitations by offering low-cost, adaptable, and accessible platforms for disseminating lifestyle management interventions.
OBJECTIVE: Using the RE-AIM evaluation framework, this study assessed the potential effectiveness and feasibility of GlycoLeap, a mobile lifestyle management program for people with T2DM, as an add-on to standard care.
METHODS: This single-arm feasibility study recruited 100 patients with T2DM and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels of ≥7.5% from a single community health care facility in Singapore. All participants were given access to a 6-month mobile lifestyle management program, GlycoLeap, comprising online lessons and the Glyco mobile phone app with a health coaching feature. The GlycoLeap program was evaluated using 4 relevant dimensions of the RE-AIM framework: (1) reach (percentage who consented to participate out of all patients approached), (2) effectiveness (percentage point change in HbA1c [primary outcome] and weight loss [secondary outcome]), (3) implementation (program engagement as assessed by various participatory metrics), and (4) maintenance (postintervention user satisfaction surveys to predict the sustainability of GlycoLeap). Participants were assessed at baseline and at follow-up (≥12 weeks after starting the intervention).
RESULTS: A total of 785 patients were approached of whom 104 consented to participate, placing the reach at 13.2%. Four were excluded after eligibility screening, and 100 patients were recruited. Program engagement (implementation) started out high but decreased with time for all evaluated components. Self-reported survey data suggest that participants monitored their blood glucose on more days in the past week at follow-up compared to baseline (P<.001) and reported positive changes to their diet due to app engagement (P<.001) (implementation). Primary outcome data were available for 83 participants. Statistically significant improvements were observed for HbA1c (-1.3 percentage points, P<.001) with greater improvements for those who logged their weight more often (P=.007) (effectiveness). Participants also had a 2.3% reduction in baseline weight (P<.001) (effectiveness). User satisfaction was high with 74% (59/80) and 79% (63/80) of participants rating the app good or very good and claiming that they would probably or definitely recommend the app to others, respectively (maintenance).
CONCLUSIONS: Although measures of program engagement decreased with time, clinically significant improvements in HbA1c were achieved with the potential for broader implementation. However, we cannot rule out that these improvements were due to factors unrelated to GlycoLeap. Therefore, we would recommend evaluating the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of GlycoLeap using a randomized controlled trial of at least 12 months.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03091517; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03091517 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/77rNqhwRn).
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of Rapid On-demand Molecular Diagnosis of Pediatric Seasonal Influenza on Laboratory Workflow and Testing Costs: A Retrospective Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Seasonal influenza imposes a considerable burden worldwide. We aimed to evaluate impact of rapid pediatric seasonal influenza diagnosis on laboratory workflow and cost using a rapid antigen detection-based test combined with either a reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or the Alere i Influenza A and B (Alere i) assay for confirmation of negative results as well as single Alere i testing on nasopharyngeal aspirates. A secondary objective was assessing performance of Alere i against RT-PCR.
METHODS: Effects of implementing the 3 diagnostic algorithms were assessed in the Emergency Department of Hospital Sant Joan de Déu (Barcelona, Spain) across the 2014-2015, 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 influenza seasons. Alere i performance against RT-PCR was determined during the 2015-2016 epidemic period.
RESULTS: Median time to result decreased when using Alere i as a confirmatory test of previous antigen detection and RT-PCR results or alone (9.7vs. 3.5/2.0 and 0.7 hours, P < 0.001) along with mean testing costs (&OV0556;87.3 vs. &OV0556;38.2 and &OV0556;25.0, P < 0.001). Results available before patient discharge from the emergency department increased from 42.7% for sequential testing by antigen detection and RT-PCR to 80.0% when Alere i was utilized as a stand-alone test. Alere i sensitivity and specificity values were 96.6% (95% confidence interval: 82.8%-99.4%) and 94.4% (95% confidence interval: 86.6%-97.8%), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Rapid Alere i testing facilitated efficient laboratory workflow near the patient during influenza epidemics while contributing cost savings when compared with serial testing by antigen and RT-PCR assays.
Label Included: 0

Title: Collaborative and secure transmission of medical data applied to mobile healthcare.
Abstract: PURPOSE: We propose a collaborative and secure transmission scheme in order to safely and efficiently transmit medical data and provide telemedicine services, lighten the load on wireless access networks, and improve the quality of medical treatment such as surgery.
METHODS: First, the transmission technology based on opportunistic networks is used to upload patient physiological data and share medical information. Second, we propose a trusted transfer scheme based on the circle of friends, which is constructed with historical encounters and social features of nodes. This scheme takes the forwarding policy of each packet by close friends to effectively prevent the participation of strangers, and avoid privacy issues and deal with selfish behaviors. At the same time, the structure of friend circle is beneficial to the improvement of medical data transmission. Third, we present a lossless compression scheme with less computation and higher compression ratio to reduce the amount of medical data and improve the performance of the transmission.
RESULTS: The experimental results show that the proposed scheme is effective and has good transmission performance while ensuring the safety and reliability of media data.
CONCLUSION: The mobile healthcare faces some challenges such as the vastness of medical data and sensitivity of patient information. Using opportunistic networks to transmit medical data in mobile healthcare is a good solution, which can effectively divert and offload the data traffic of mobile Internet. The structure of friend circles and the technology of data compression are beneficial to safely and efficiently transmit the patient's physiological parameters and medical health information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of a tele-rehabilitation intervention to improve performance and reduce morbidity for people post hip fracture - study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Most surviving hip-fracture patients experience reduced mobility and lose some of their functional ability, which increases the risk of complications and rehospitalization. Post-discharge transitional programs to reduce readmissions and disabilities have shown some success. Telerehabilitation refers to the use of technologies to provide rehabilitation services to people in their homes. Considering the need for long-term follow-up care for people with hip fracture, in-home telerehabilitation could increase independence, decrease hospital stays and reduce the burden for caregivers. The objective of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of an intervention program based on telerehabilitation on activities of daily living (ADL), quality of life (QOL), depression and burden on caregivers compared to face-to-face home visits and usual care of community-dwelling older adults after hip fracture.
METHODS/DESIGN: This will be a three-armed randomized control trial (RCT) including pre/post intervention and follow-up. The trial will include 90 older people with hip fractures who will be randomly assigned to a telerehabilitation group (N = 30), face-to-face visits (N = 30) and a control group. The aim of the intervention is to improve the transition from rehabilitation units to community dwelling. It will include 10 videoconferencing/ face-to-face sessions from an occupational therapist in the presence of the primary caregiver. Each session will be utilized to guide the participants to achieve their self-identified goals, focusing on problem-solving for daily life situations and on the ability to implement the discussed strategies for a variety of activities. Outcome measures include Functional Independence Measure (FIM) for evaluation of ADL, SF-12 for evaluation of Health-related QOL, The Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) and The Zarit Caregiver Burden Scale. Data will be analyzed using Repeated measures MANOVA.
DISCUSSION: The current study will enable the cost-effectiveness examination of a suggested rehabilitation service based on available technology. The proposed intervention will increase accessibility of in-home rehabilitation services, improve function and health, and reduce economic burden.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT03376750 (12/15/2017).
Label Included: 0

Title: A Digital Behavioral Weight Gain Prevention Intervention in Primary Care Practice: Cost and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Obesity is one of the largest drivers of health care spending but nearly half of the population with obesity demonstrate suboptimal readiness for weight loss treatment. Black women are disproportionately likely to have both obesity and limited weight loss readiness. However, they have been shown to be receptive to strategies that prevent weight gain.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the costs and cost-effectiveness of a digital weight gain prevention intervention (Shape) for black women. Shape consisted of adaptive telephone-based coaching by health system personnel, a tailored skills training curriculum, and patient self-monitoring delivered via a fully automated interactive voice response system.
METHODS: A cost and cost-effectiveness analysis based on a randomized clinical trial of the Shape intervention was conducted from the payer perspective. Costs included those of delivering the program to 91 intervention participants in the trial and were summarized by program elements: self-monitoring, skills training, coaching, and administration. Effectiveness was measured in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The primary outcome was the incremental cost per QALY of Shape relative to usual care.
RESULTS: Shape cost an average of US $758 per participant. The base-case model in which quality of life benefits decay linearly to zero 5 years post intervention cessation, generated an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US $55,264 per QALY. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses suggest an ICER below US $50,000 per QALY and US $100,000 per QALY in 39% and 98% of simulations, respectively. Results are highly sensitive to durability of benefits, rising to US $165,730 if benefits end 6 months post intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that the Shape intervention is cost-effective based on established benchmarks, indicating that it can be a part of a successful strategy to address the nation's growing obesity epidemic in low-income at-risk communities.
Label Included: 1

Title: Cost-effectiveness of the utilization of "good practice" or the lack thereof according to a bronchiolitis evidence-based clinical practice guideline.
Abstract: RATIONALE, AIMS, AND OBJECTIVES: The aim of the present study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of the utilization of "good practice" according to a bronchiolitis clinical practice guideline (CPG) in a population of infants hospitalized for acute bronchiolitis.
METHOD: A decision-analysis model was developed in order to estimate the cost-effectiveness of the utilization of "good practice" compared with the lack of use of "good practice" according to a bronchiolitis evidence-based CPG. The effectiveness parameters and costs of the model were obtained from electronic medical records. The main outcome was the readmission of the patients within 10 days of post discharge.
RESULTS: Compared with lack of "good practice," the utilization of "good practice" in the diagnosis and management of patients with bronchiolitis was associated with both fewer patients readmitted within 10 days of post discharge (0.88 vs 0.99 on average per patient) and lower costs (US$1529.3 versus $1709.1 average cost per patient), thus leading to dominance. Results were robust to deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with lack of "good practice," the utilization of "good practice" in the diagnosis and management of acute bronchiolitis according to a bronchiolitis CPG is a dominant strategy because it involves both fewer patients readmitted within 10 days of post discharge and lower costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Are stage-based health information messages effective and good value for money in improving maternal newborn and child health outcomes in India? Protocol for an individually randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Evidence is limited on the effectiveness of mobile health programs which provide stage-based health information messages to pregnant and postpartum women. Kilkari is an outbound service that delivers weekly, stage-based audio messages about pregnancy, childbirth, and childcare directly to families in 13 states across India on their mobile phones. In this protocol we outline methods for measuring the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of Kilkari.
METHODS: The study is an individually randomized controlled trial (iRCT) with a parallel, partially concurrent, and unblinded design. Five thousand pregnant women will be enrolled from four districts of Madhya Pradesh and randomized to an intervention or control arm. The women in the intervention arm will receive Kilkari messages while the control group will not receive any Kilkari messages as part of the study. Women in both arms will be followed from enrollment in the second and early third trimesters of pregnancy until one year after delivery. Differences in primary outcomes across study arms including early and exclusive breastfeeding and the adoption of modern contraception at 1 year postpartum will be assessed using intention to treat methodology. Surveys will be administered at baseline and endline containing modules on phone ownership, geographical and demographic characteristics, knowledge, practices, respectful maternity care, and coverage for antenatal care, delivery, and postnatal care. In-depth interviews and focus group discussions will be carried out to understand user perceptions of Kilkari, and more broadly, experiences providing phone numbers and personal health information to health care providers. Costs and consequences will be estimated from a societal perspective for the 2018-2019 analytic time horizon.
DISCUSSION: Kilkari is the largest maternal messaging program, in terms of absolute numbers, currently being implemented globally. Evaluations of similar initiatives elsewhere have been small in scale and focused on summative outcomes, presenting limited evidence on individual exposure to content. Drawing upon system-generated data, we explore linkages between successful receipt of calls, user engagement with calls, and reported outcomes. This is the first study of its kind in India and is anticipated to provide the most robust and comprehensive evidence to date on maternal messaging programs globally.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov, 90075552, NCT03576157 . Registered on 22 June 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-Based Primary Care's Role in Supporting the Older Old During Wildfires.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: There is limited understanding of how Home-Based Primary Care (HBPC) programs support their medically complex patients in event of a disaster. This study aimed to identify emergency preparedness protocols and procedures undertaken in advance of and due to the 2017 Northern California wildfires by staff of the Veterans Health Administration (VA) HBPC programs.
METHODS: This study examines the experiences and responses of two VA HBPC programs to the 2017 Northern California wildfires. Six phone interviews were conducted from July to August 2018. The interview protocol addressed agency preparedness policies and procedures, continuity of care after the wildfires, as well as facilitators and barriers to disaster response.
RESULTS: The total patient census of participating HBPC programs was 300. Neither HBPC program reported a loss of life due to the wildfires. Early patient preparedness, effective leadership support, and strength of program operating procedures emerged as key factors to effective response.
CONCLUSIONS: Demand for home health care, like VA's HBPC program, is projected to grow as the number of older adults and longevity increases. Emergency management efforts must likewise evolve to address the unique needs of these vulnerable patients in disasters. Understanding the program activities conducted by the VA HBPC programs in response to the 2017 Northern California wildfires can help improve the understanding of how VA and non-VA home-based care programs can be best integrated into resilience planning of local communities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Facebook ads to the rescue? Recruiting a hard to reach population into an Internet-based behavioral health intervention trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Facebook (FB) ads are touted as a way to facilitate recruitment of hard to reach participants into digital health research but the evidence has been mixed. This study aimed to empirically evaluate the impact and cost-effectiveness of paid ads for recruitment into a national trial testing an Internet-based, coached intervention for parents of children with Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders.
METHODS: Post hoc analysis of FB ad data and Google analytics on the online trial consent site (myStudies) were conducted on 11 campaigns employing static image/text ads. Standard metrics (e.g., click through rate, cost per 1000 impressions, cost per consent) were calculated and descriptive statistics comparing FB ad engagement and enrolled participants over time were conducted.
RESULTS: Ad campaigns were active for a combined 115 days over 58 weeks resulting in 1533 links to the online recruitment site. During the ad campaigns, the mean rate of enrolment was 1 participant every 2 days. The first 3 ad campaigns were the most cost-effective. Mean cost per enrolment was $19.27 (Canadian dollars).
CONCLUSIONS: FB ads were efficient and cost-effective in broad dissemination of trial information, but more research is needed to explore the impact of saturation (how often ads are posted), design (what is in the ad), and individual determinants (who is likely to respond to an ad) on converting FB ad engagement into enrolment. Avoiding a reductionist approach to analytics will help ensure appropriate and targeted strategies remain the priority for digital health research recruitment through social media.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a virtual multidisciplinary stroke care clinic for community-dwelling stroke survivors and caregivers: a randomised controlled trial protocol.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The virtual multidisciplinary stroke care clinic (VMSCC) is the first nurse-led clinic developed to offer support to community-dwelling stroke survivors and caregivers, and to promote poststroke recovery. This two-arm randomised controlled trial will evaluate its effectiveness on survivors' self-efficacy (SE), survivors' and caregivers' health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and cost-effectiveness on emergency admissions and length of readmission hospital stay.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A consecutive sample of 384 stroke survivor-caregiver dyads will be recruited from four hospitals. An online platform that embraces readily accessible and reliable information will be developed. Participants randomly assigned to the intervention group will receive usual care plus the VMSCC service. The service includes access to a tablet containing 30 videos demonstrating appropriate self-care strategies, communication with a registered nurse monthly through video and telephone calls and regular blood pressure monitoring. Primary outcomes include survivors' SE in self-management and survivors' and caregivers' HRQoL. Secondary outcomes include survivors' performance of self-management behaviours, depression and social participation; and caregivers' coping strategies, satisfaction with caring and depression. Data will be collected at baseline, and at 3 and 6 months after commencing the intervention. Survivors' and caregivers' satisfaction with the service will be assessed at 6-month follow-up. Multivariable regressions and generalised estimating equations model will be conducted. Survivors' emergency admissions and length of hospital stay will be evaluated during the 6-month follow-up period. Cost-effectiveness analysis will be performed on the average total cost incurred.
DISCUSSION: The results will inform stakeholders about incorporating the VMSCC service into current stroke rehabilitation service.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This protocol was approved by the Joint Chinese University of Hong Kong-New Territories East Cluster Clinical Research Ethics Committee (CREC Ref. No.: 2017.660). All participants will provide written informed consent. Results will be disseminated through scientific publications, and presentations at local and international conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ChiCTR1800016101; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Outpatient Telemedicine Program in Vascular Surgery Reduces Patient Travel Time, Cost, and Environmental Pollutant Emissions.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: We analyze the impact of outpatient telemedicine services on the travel burden of vascular surgery patients with regard to distance, time, and cost, as well as the emission of environmental pollutants.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis was used to compare the patient travel expenditure and environmental impact associated with telemedicine encounters versus hypothetical in-person traditional consultations for all outpatient virtual care encounters with vascular surgery patients from October 2015 to October 2017. The primary outcomes measured were travel distance saved, travel time saved, travel costs saved, reduction in fuel consumption, and reduction in environmental pollutant emission.
RESULTS: Over a two-year period, 146 outpatient telemedicine encounters were conducted among 87 unique patients (61 females, 26 males; mean age, 60 ± 13 years). The average one-way distance saved by the utilization of telemedicine services was 15.6 ± 6.3 miles, with an average roundtrip savings of 31.2 miles. The average one-way travel time saved was 19.5 ± 9.2 minutes, with an average roundtrip savings of 39 minutes. By using telemedicine services, these vascular surgery patients saved an average of $4.26 in gas and parking costs at each telemedicine encounter. The total reduction in passenger vehicle emission of environmental pollutants, including carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitric oxides, and volatile organic compounds was 1632 kg, 42,867 g, 3160 g, and 4715 g, respectively, with a total of 194 gallons of gas saved from driving.
CONCLUSIONS: Utilization of telemedicine services reduces the travel distance, time, and costs for vascular surgery patients. Outpatient telemedicine programs may also provide environmental benefit through the reduction of greenhouse gas and pollutant emissions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Agreement between patient reported outcomes and clinical reports after radical prostatectomy - a prospective longitudinal study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In clinical research information can be retrieved through various sources. The aim is to evaluate the agreement between answers in patient questionnaires and clinical reports in a study of patients after radical prostatectomy and patient characteristics associated with agreement between these two data sources.
METHODS: In the prospective non-randomized longitudinal trial LAParoscopic Prostatectomy Robot Open (LAPPRO) 4003 patients undergoing radical prostatectomy at 14 centers in Sweden were followed. Analysis of agreement is made using a variety of methods, including the recently proposed Gwet's AC1, which enables us to handle the limitations of Cohen's Kappa where agreement depends on the underlying prevalence.
RESULTS: The incidence of postoperative events was consistently reported higher by the patient compared with the clinical reports for all outcomes. Agreement regarding the absence of events (negative agreement) was consistently higher than agreement regarding events (positive agreement) for all outcome variables. Overall impression of agreement depends on which measure used for the assessment. The previously reported desirable properties of Gwet's AC1 as well as the patient characteristics associated with agreement were confirmed.
CONCLUSION: The differences in incidence and agreement across the different variables and time points highlight the importance of carefully assessing which source of information to use in clinical research.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN06393679 ( www.isrctn.com ). Date of registration: 07/02/2008. Retrospectively registered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote neuropsychological assessment of elderly Japanese population using the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale: A validation study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Studies have demonstrated the high agreement of several remote neuropsychological tests using video teleconferencing (VTC) with face-to-face (FTF) tests. However, the reliability of the remotely administered Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog), one of the most commonly used neuropsychological tests to detect cognitive decline, has not been substantially elucidated, particularly in Japanese populations. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the reliability of the remotely administered ADAS-cog compared with FTF-administered ADAS-cog among elderly Japanese participants.
METHODS: Participants aged ≥60 years with and without cognitive impairment, i.e. those with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), those with dementia and healthy controls (HCs), were assessed with the ADAS-cog using VTC and FTF testing at an interval of >2 weeks and <3 months. The assessment order (VTC or FTF) was randomized by participants. Participants' scores were compared among the entire sample, as well as subgroups, using intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs) in a mixed-effects model.
RESULTS: A total of 73 participants were included in the study (36 men; age, 76.3 ± 7.6 years). The ICC for the ADAS-cog total score was high in the entire sample (0.86), whereas ICCs were moderate to high for the subgroups (MCI: 0.63, dementia: 0.80 and HC: 0.74).
DISCUSSION: The results indicate that a VTC-administered ADAS-cog could be an alternative for an FTF-administered ADAS-cog, although further replication studies with larger sample sizes and a wider range of cognitive functionalities are warranted.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Telemonitoring and Self-Monitoring of Blood Pressure for Antihypertensive Titration in Primary Care (TASMINH4).
Abstract: The use of self-monitoring of blood pressure, with or without telemonitoring, to guide therapy decisions by physicians for patients with hypertension has been recently demonstrated to reduce blood pressure compared with using clinic monitoring (usual care). However, both the cost-effectiveness of these strategies compared with usual care, and whether the additional benefit of telemonitoring compared with self-monitoring alone could be considered value for money, are unknown. This study assessed the cost-effectiveness of physician titration of antihypertensive medication using self-monitored blood pressure, with or without telemonitoring, to make hypertension treatment decisions in primary care compared with usual care. A Markov patient-level simulation model was developed taking a UK Health Service/Personal Social Services perspective. The model adopted a lifetime time horizon with 6-month time cycles. At a willingness to pay of £20 000 per quality-adjusted life year, self-monitoring plus telemonitoring was the most cost-effective strategy (£17 424 per quality-adjusted life year gained) compared with usual care or self-monitoring alone (posting the results to the physician). However, deterministic sensitivity analysis showed that self-monitoring alone became the most cost-effective option when changing key assumptions around long-term effectiveness and time horizon. Overall, probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggested that self-monitoring regardless of transmission modality was likely to be cost-effective compared with usual care (89% probability of cost-effectiveness at £20 000/quality-adjusted life year), with high uncertainty as to whether telemonitoring or self-monitoring alone was the most cost-effective option. Self-monitoring in clinical practice is cost-effective and likely to lead to reduced cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine Video Visits for patients receiving palliative care: A qualitative study.
Abstract: In this needs assessment, gathered patient perceptions on how telemedicine video visits might influence their care. Patients in this study (n = 13) were all diagnosed with end-stage cancer and were receiving palliative care at an urban academic medical center. Interview themes addressed: 1. impact on patient's health management, 2. user experience, 3. technical issues and 4. cost and time. Ultimately, despite concerns over truncated physical exams and prescription limits, the majority of patients favored having the opportunity for telemedicine video visits, felt that the doctor-patient relationship would not suffer, had confidence in their or their surrogate's technical abilities to navigate the video visit, had privacy concerns on par with other technologies, had few cost concerns, and believed a video alternative to an in-person visit might increase access, save time as well as increase comfort and safety by avoiding a trip to the office. These results suggest potential for acceptance of video-based telemedicine by an urban population of oncology patients receiving palliative care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Targeted, structured text messaging to improve dietary and lifestyle behaviours for people on maintenance haemodialysis (KIDNEYTEXT): study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Managing nutrition is critical for reducing morbidity and mortality in patients on haemodialysis but adherence to the complex dietary restrictions remains problematic. Innovative interventions to enhance the delivery of nutritional care are needed. The aim of this phase II trial is to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of a targeted mobile phone text messaging system to improve dietary and lifestyle behaviours in patients on long-term haemodialysis.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Single-blinded randomised controlled trial with 6 months of follow-up in 130 patients on haemodialysis who will be randomised to either standard care or KIDNEYTEXT. The KIDNEYTEXT intervention group will receive three text messages per week for 6 months. The text messages provide customised dietary information and advice based on renal dietary guidelines and general healthy eating dietary guidelines, and motivation and support to improve behaviours. The primary outcome is feasibility including recruitment rate, drop-out rate, adherence to renal dietary recommendations, participant satisfaction and a process evaluation using semistructured interviews with a subset of purposively sampled participants. Secondary and exploratory outcomes include a range of clinical and behavioural outcomes and a healthcare utilisation cost analysis will be undertaken.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has been approved by the Western Sydney Local Health District Human Research Ethics Committee-Westmead. Results will be presented at scientific meetings and published in peer-reviewed publications.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ACTRN12617001084370; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Palliative care for people with dementia living at home: A systematic review of interventions.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The European Association for Palliative Care White Paper defined optimal palliative care in dementia based on evidence and expert consensus. Yet, we know little on how to achieve this for people with dementia living and dying at home.
AIMS: To examine evidence on home palliative care interventions in dementia, in terms of their effectiveness on end-of-life care outcomes, factors influencing implementation, the extent to which they address the European Association for Palliative Care palliative care domains and evidence gaps.
DESIGN: A systematic review of home palliative care interventions in dementia.
DATA SOURCES: The review adhered to the PRISMA guidelines and the protocol was registered with PROSPERO (CRD42018093607). We searched four electronic databases up to April 2018 (PubMed, Scopus, Cochrane library and CINAHL) and conducted lateral searches.
RESULTS: We retrieved eight relevant studies, none of which was of high quality. The evidence, albeit of generally weak quality, showed the potential benefits of the interventions in improving end-of-life care outcomes, for example, behavioural disturbances. The interventions most commonly focused on optimal symptom management, continuity of care and psychosocial support. Other European Association for Palliative Care domains identified as important in palliative care for people with dementia, for example, prognostication of dying or avoidance of burdensome interventions were under-reported. No direct evidence on facilitators and barriers to implementation was found.
CONCLUSIONS: The review highlights the paucity of high-quality dementia-specific research in this area and recommends key areas for future work, for example, the need for process evaluation to identify facilitators and barriers to implementing interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: World Pharma Pricing and Market Access Congress - 11th Terrapinn Congress (March 19-20, 2019 - Amsterdam, the Netherlands).
Abstract: The 11th World Pharma Pricing and Market Access Congress 2019, organized by Terrapinn and held in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, brought together speakers and delegates from across the Globe, and enabled discussions surrounding market access, pricing, value and evidence generation. There was a focus on developments in rare diseases and advanced therapies, with emphasis on the growing importance of digital health and big data to generate results and manage real-world evidence (RWE). The conference was divided into both keynote plenaries and six parallel-running tracks, with deliberations concerning customer-driven outcomes to enhance value, the importance of utilizing digital health in RWE analysis, modifying policy to better facilitate pricing discussions for novel advanced therapies, and adapting combination and indication on the basis of pricing to prepare for the many multi-indication approved drugs to come.
Label Included: 0

Title: Healthcare utilization of breast cancer patients following telephone-based consultations of oncology nurse navigator via telemedical care.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To characterize breast cancer patients who received telephone-based consultations of oncology nurse navigator via telemedical care (TMC patients) and analyze their healthcare utilization (HCU) one year before and after receiving this service.
METHODS: A retrospective study among Maccabi Healthcare Services enrollees that were newly diagnosed during 2016 (n = 1035). HCU, demographic characteristics and comorbidities were obtained from computerized database. Multivariable ordered logit model was specified for the determinants of HCU by quarters. Independent variables included: annual number of telephone-based consultations, gap between diagnosis and first consultation, age, socio-economic status, eligibility for disability and income security benefits, and comorbidities.
RESULTS: Twenty-two percent of our cohort were TMC patients. Compared to others, these patients were younger and had a lower prevalence of hypertension. A higher proportion of these patients received disability benefits, and a lower proportion received income security benefits. The total average annual HCU of TMC patients (n = 107) before first consultation was $8857 and increased to $44130 in the first year following it (p<0.001), predominantly due to a significant increase in outpatient visits ($20380 vs. $3502, p<0.001) and medication costs ($19339 vs. $1758, p<0.001). The multivariable model revealed that each additional telephone-based consultation decreased the likelihood to be in the lowest quarter of the HCU distribution by 1.1 percentage points (p = 0.015), and increased the likelihood to be in the upper quarter of the HCU distribution by 1.1 percentage points (p = 0.016).
CONCLUSIONS: There was a significant increase in outpatient care and medications usage following first consultation. Moreover, a more intense use of this service was associated with elevated HCU. This result may stem from the proactive nature of the telemedical care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth Use to Promote Quality Outcomes and Reduce Costs in Stroke Care.
Abstract: Stroke can cause severe disability and death in the adult population. Many stroke patients do not have access to resources required to provide a timely diagnosis and treatment. Telestroke can provide these patients the accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment they require. Telestroke has been linked to improved functional outcomes in the treatment of acute ischemic strokes. There are several barriers to providing a telestroke service, such as licensure and liability, reimbursement, technology, and financial issues. It is important to recognize these barriers and begin to implement strategies to overcome them. Telestroke use is cost-effective by reducing stroke complications and disabilities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of neonatal tele-homecare for preterm infants compared to hospital-based care.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Neonatal homecare (NH) can be used to provide parents the opportunity of bringing cardiopulmonary-stable preterm infants home for tube feeding and the establishment of breastfeeding supported by neonatal nurses visiting the home. However, home visits can be challenging for hospitals covering large regions, and, therefore, regular neonatal hospital care has remained the first choice in Denmark. As an alternative to home visits, telehealth may be used to deliver NH. Thus, neonatal tele-homecare (NTH) was developed. Positive infant outcomes and the optimization of family-centred care have been described, but the costs of telehealth in the context of NH remain unknown. This study aims to assess the costs of NTH compared to regular neonatal hospital care, from the health service perspective.
METHODS: The cost analysis was based on an observational study of NTH in Denmark (run from November 2015 to December 2016) and followed the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards. The intervention group were the families of preterm infants receiving NTH (n = 96). The control group comprised a historic cohort of families with preterm infants, receiving standard care in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) (n = 278). NTH infants and the historical group were categorized according to gestational age at birth at/under and over 32 weeks. The outcomes were NTH resource utilization, in-NICU hospital bed days, re-admissions and total costs on average per infant. The time horizon was from birth to discharge.
RESULTS: The costs of NTH resource utilization were, on average, €695 per infant, and the total costs per infant, on average, were €12,200 and €4200 for infants at/under and over 32 weeks, respectively. The corresponding costs of the control group were €14,300 and €4400. The difference in total costs showed statistical significance for the group of infants under 32 weeks (p < 0.001).
DISCUSSION: The cost analysis showed that NTH was less costly compared to regular hospital care, especially for infants born with gestational age at/under 32 weeks. NTH is an appropriate model of care for preterm infants and their families, is clinically effective and less expensive than similar services delivered in the hospital.
Label Included: 0

Title: Therapist telephone-delivered CBT and web-based CBT compared with treatment as usual in refractory irritable bowel syndrome: the ACTIB three-arm RCT.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) affects 10-22% of people in the UK. Abdominal pain, bloating and altered bowel habits affect quality of life and can lead to time off work. Current treatment relies on a positive diagnosis, reassurance, lifestyle advice and drug therapies, but many people suffer ongoing symptoms. Cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) is recommended in guidelines for patients with ongoing symptoms but its availability is limited.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of therapist telephone-delivered CBT (TCBT) and web-based CBT (WCBT) with minimal therapist support compared with treatment as usual (TAU) in refractory IBS.
DESIGN: This was a three-arm randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: This trial took place in UK primary and secondary care.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults with refractory IBS (clinically significant symptoms for 12 months despite first-line therapies) were recruited from 74 general practices and three gastroenterology centres from May 2014 to March 2016.
INTERVENTIONS: TCBT - patient CBT self-management manual, six 60-minute telephone sessions over 9 weeks and two 60-minute booster sessions at 4 and 8 months (8 hours' therapist time). WCBT - interactive, tailored web-based CBT, three 30-minute telephone sessions over 9 weeks and two 30-minute boosters at 4 and 8 months (2.5 hours' therapist time).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcomes - IBS symptom severity score (IBS SSS) and Work and Social Adjustment Scale (WSAS) at 12 months. Cost-effectiveness [quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and health-care costs].
RESULTS: In total, 558 out of 1452 patients (38.4%) screened for eligibility were recruited - 186 were randomised to TCBT, 185 were randomised to WCBT and 187 were randomised to TAU. The mean baseline Irritable Bowel Syndrome Symptom Severity Score (IBS SSS) was 265.0. An intention-to-treat analysis with multiple imputation was carried out at 12 months; IBS SSS were 61.6 points lower in the TCBT arm [95% confidence interval (CI) 89.5 to 33.8; p < 0.001] and 35.2 points lower in the WCBT arm (95% CI 57.8 to 12.6; p = 0.002) than in the TAU arm (IBS SSS of 205.6). The mean WSAS score at 12 months was 10.8 in the TAU arm, 3.5 points lower in the TCBT arm (95% CI 5.1 to 1.9; p < 0.001) and 3.0 points lower in the WCBT arm (95% CI 4.6 to 1.3; p = 0.001). For the secondary outcomes, the Subject's Global Assessment showed an improvement in symptoms at 12 months (responders) in 84.8% of the TCBT arm compared with 41.7% of the TAU arm [odds ratio (OR) 6.1, 95% CI 2.5 to 15.0; p < 0.001] and 75.0% of the WCBT arm (OR 3.6, 95% CI 2.0 to 6.3; p < 0.001). Patient enablement was 78.3% (responders) for TCBT, 23.5% for TAU (OR 9.3, 95% CI 4.5 to 19.3; p < 0.001) and 54.8% for WCBT (OR 3.5, 95% CI 2.0 to 5.9; p < 0.001). Adverse events were similar between the trial arms. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) (QALY) for TCBT versus TAU was £22,284 and for WCBT versus TAU was £7724. Cost-effectiveness reduced after imputation for missing values. Qualitative findings highlighted that, in the CBT arms, there was increased capacity to cope with symptoms, negative emotions and challenges of daily life. Therapist input was important in supporting WCBT.
CONCLUSIONS: In this large, rigorously conducted RCT, both CBT arms showed significant improvements in IBS outcomes compared with TAU. WCBT had lower costs per QALY than TCBT. Sustained improvements in IBS symptoms are possible at an acceptable cost. Suggested future research work is longer-term follow-up and research to translate these findings into usual clinical practice.
FUTURE WORK: Longer-term follow-up and research to translate these findings into usual clinical practice is needed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN44427879.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment (HTA) programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 23, No. 17. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information. The University of Southampton sponsored this study. Funding was received from the NIHR HTA Board and the NIHR Clinical Research Network and support was received from the NIHR Clinical Research Network.
Label Included: 0

Title: HELP@APP: development and evaluation of a self-help app for traumatized Syrian refugees in Germany - a study protocol of a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Syrians represent the largest group among refugees in Germany. Many of them were exposed to sequential traumatizing events including war, escape and post-migration stressors, which significantly increase the risk to develop symptoms of posttraumatic stress and other mental disorders. However, there is a lack of adequate treatment options for traumatized refugees in Germany. Moreover, their access to psychosocial care is often restricted due to legal regulation, language barriers, and unclear cost coverage. We therefore aim to develop a low-threshold supportive self-help app for Syrian refugees with posttraumatic stress symptoms. By conducting a randomized controlled trial, we further aim to evaluate the apps' efficacy, usability, acceptance, and economic health benefit/cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: We will develop a modular, interactive self-help app in Arabic, which will be grounded on cognitive-behavioral models for the treatment of posttraumatic stress. Subsequently, screened positive (i.e., Syrian refugees, 18-65 years old, mild to moderate posttraumatic stress symptomatology as quantified by the Posttraumatic Stress Diagnostic Scale for DSM-5/PDS-5) participants (ideally up to n = 234) will be randomly allocated to an intervention (IG) and control group (CG), respectively. Participants in the IG will gain access to the self-help app for one month, while participants in the CG will receive psychoeducational reading material in form of a comprehensive brochure on traumatization and posttraumatic stress. Measurements are scheduled before the intervention (T0), directly after the intervention (T1, one month later) and three months after the intervention (T2). Using linear mixed effect models, we will investigate change in posttraumatic symptomatology. We will also test for changes in secondary outcomes such as depression, anxiety, and quality of life. Moreover, we will inspect the usability and user acceptance of the app. To evaluate the app in terms of its economic health benefit, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio will be calculated.
DISCUSSION: We plan to make the app freely available to the general public after evaluation. Thus, the app can help to add-on to routine care, which currently lacks sufficient and appropriate treatment options for Syrian refugees.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register/Deutsches Register Klinischer Studien (DRKS). Registration ID: DRKS00013782 . Registered: 06th of July 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Informing NHS policy in ‘digital-first primary care’: a rapid evidence synthesis
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In ‘digital-first primary care’ models of health-care delivery, a patient’s first point of contact with a general practitioner or other health professional is through a digital channel, rather than a face-to-face consultation. Patients are able to access advice and treatment remotely from their home or workplace via a number of different technologies.
OBJECTIVES: This rapid responsive evidence synthesis was undertaken to inform NHS England policy in ‘digital-first primary care’. It was conducted in two stages: (1) scoping the published evidence and (2) addressing a refined set of questions produced by NHS England from the evidence retrieved during the scoping stage.
DATA SOURCES: Searches were conducted of five electronic databases (MEDLINE, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, the Health Technology Assessment database and PROSPERO were searched in July 2018) and relevant research/policy and government websites, as well as the National Institute for Health Research Health Service and Delivery Research programme database of ongoing and completed projects. No date or geographical limitations were applied.
REVIEW METHODS: After examining the initial scoping material, NHS England provided a list of questions relating to the potential effects of digital modes and models of engagement, and the contracting and integration of these models into primary care. Systematic reviews and evidence syntheses, including evidence on the use of digital (online) modes and models of engagement between patients and primary care, were examined more closely, as was ongoing research and any incidentally identified primary studies focused on the use of digital (online) modes and models of engagement. All records were screened by two reviewers, with disagreements resolved by consensus or consulting a third reviewer.
RESULTS: Evidence suggests that uptake of existing digital modes of engagement is currently low. Patients who use digital alternatives to face-to-face consultations are likely to be younger, female and have higher income and education levels. There is some evidence that online triage tools can divert demand away from primary care, but results vary between interventions and outcome measures. A number of potential barriers exist to using digital alternatives to face-to-face consultations, including inadequate NHS technology and staff concerns about workload and confidentiality. There are currently insufficient empirical data to either substantiate or allay such concerns. Very little evidence exists on outcomes related to quality of care, service delivery, benefits or harms for patients, or on financial costs/cost-effectiveness. No studies examining how to contract and commission alternatives to face-to-face consultations were identified.
LIMITATIONS: The quality of the included reviews was variable. Poor reporting of methodology and a lack of adequate study details were common issues. Much of the evidence focused on exploring stakeholder views rather than on objective measurement of potential impacts. The current evidence synthesis is based on a rapid scoping exercise and cannot provide the breadth or depth of insight that might have been achieved with a full systematic review.
CONCLUSIONS: Rapid scoping of the literature suggests that there is little high-quality evidence relating to ‘digital-first primary care’ as defined by NHS England. The broader evidence on alternatives to face-to-face consultation addresses certain policy-maker concerns, such as the possible impact of new technologies on workload and workforce, inequalities, local implementation and integration with existing services. However, although this evidence gives an insight into the views and experiences of health professionals in relation to such concerns, quantitative empirical data are lacking.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Service and Delivery Research programme.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital and online symptom checkers and assessment services for urgent care to inform a new digital platform: a systematic review
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Digital and online symptom checkers and assessment services are used by patients seeking guidance about health problems. NHS England is planning to introduce a digital platform (NHS111 Online) to operate alongside the NHS111 urgent-care telephone service. This review focuses on digital and online symptom checkers for urgent health problems.
OBJECTIVES: This systematic review was commissioned to provide NHS England with an independent review of previous research in this area to inform strategic decision-making and service design.
DATA SOURCES: Focused searches of seven bibliographic databases were performed and supplemented by phrase searching for names of symptom checker systems and citation searches of key included studies. The bibliographic databases searched were MEDLINE, EMBASE, The Cochrane Library, CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature), HMIC (Health Management Information Consortium), Web of Science and the Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) Digital Library, from inception up to April 2018.
REVIEW METHODS: Brief inclusion criteria were (1) population – general population seeking information online or digitally to address an urgent health problem; (2) intervention – any online or digital service designed to assess symptoms, provide health advice and direct patients to appropriate services; and (3) comparator – telephone or face-to-face assessment, comparative performance in tests or simulations (studies with no comparator were included if they reported relevant outcomes). Outcomes of interest included safety, clinical effectiveness, costs or cost-effectiveness, diagnostic and triage accuracy, use of and contacts with health services, compliance with advice received, patient/carer satisfaction, and equity and inclusion. Inclusion was not restricted by study design. Screening studies for inclusion, data extraction and quality assessment were carried out by one reviewer with a sample checked for accuracy and consistency. Final decisions on study inclusion were taken by consensus of the review team. A narrative synthesis of the included studies was performed and structured around the predefined research questions and key outcomes. The overall strength of evidence for each outcome was classified as ‘stronger’, ‘weaker’, ‘conflicting’ or ‘insufficient’, based on study numbers and design.
RESULTS: In total, 29 publications describing 27 studies were included. Studies were diverse in their design and methodology. The overall strength of the evidence was weak because it was largely based on observational studies and with a substantial component of non-peer-reviewed grey literature. There was little evidence to suggest that symptom checkers are unsafe, but studies evaluating their safety were generally short term and small scale. Diagnostic accuracy was highly variable between different systems but was generally low. Algorithm-based triage tended to be more risk averse than that of health professionals. Inconsistent evidence was found on effects on service use. There was very limited evidence on patients’ reactions to online triage advice. The studies showed that younger and more highly educated people are more likely to use these services. Study participants generally expressed high levels of satisfaction with digital and online triage services, albeit in uncontrolled studies.
LIMITATIONS: Findings from symptom checker systems for specific conditions may not be applicable to more general systems and vice versa. Studies of symptom checkers as part of electronic consultation systems in general practice were also included, which is a slightly different setting from a general ‘digital 111’ service. Most studies were screened by one reviewer.
CONCLUSIONS: Major uncertainties surround the probable impact of digital 111 services on most outcomes. It will be important to monitor and evaluate the services using all available data sources and by commissioning high-quality research.
FUTURE WORK: Priorities for research include comparisons of different systems, rigorous economic evaluations and investigations of patient pathways.
STUDY REGISTRATION: The study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42018093564.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Services and Delivery Research programme.
Label Included: 0

Title: Quantifying Unmet Need in Statin-Treated Hyperlipidemia Patients and the Potential Benefit of Further LDL-C Reduction Through an EHR-Based Retrospective Cohort Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Statins are effective in helping prevent cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, studies suggest that only 20%-64% of patients taking statins achieve reasonable low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) thresholds. On-treatment levels of LDL-C remain a key predictor of residual CVD event risk.
OBJECTIVES: To (a) determine how many patients on statins achieved the therapeutic threshold of LDL-C < 100 mg per dL (general cohort) and < 70 mg per dL (secondary prevention cohort, or subcohort, with preexisting CVD); (b) estimate the number of potentially avoidable CVD events if the threshold were reached; and (c) forecast potential cost savings.
METHODS: A retrospective, longitudinal cohort study using electronic health record data from the Indiana Network for Patient Care (INPC) was conducted. The INPC provides comprehensive information about patients in Indiana across health care organizations and care settings. Patients were aged > 45 years and seen between January 1, 2012, and October 31, 2016 (ensuring study of contemporary practice), were statin-naive for 12 months before the index date of initiating statin therapy, and had an LDL-C value recorded 6-18 months after the index date. Subsequent to descriptive cohort analysis, the theoretical CVD risk reduction achievable by reaching the threshold was calculated using Framingham Risk Score and Cholesterol Treatment Trialists' Collaboration formulas. Estimated potential cost savings used published first-year costs of CVD events, adjusted for inflation and discounted to the present day.
RESULTS: Of the 89,267 patients initiating statins, 30,083 (33.7%) did not achieve the LDL-C threshold (subcohort: 58.1%). In both groups, not achieving the threshold was associated with patients who were female, black, and those who had reduced medication adherence. Higher levels of preventive aspirin use and antihypertensive treatment were associated with threshold achievement. In both cohorts, approximately 64% of patients above the threshold were within 30 mg per dL of the respective threshold. Adherence to statin therapy regimen, judged by a medication possession ratio of ≥ 80%, was 57.4% in the general cohort and 56.7% in the subcohort. Of the patients who adhered to therapy, 23.7% of the general cohort and 50.5% of the subcohort had LDL-C levels that did not meet the threshold. 10-year CVD event risk in the at-or-above threshold group was 22.78% (SD = 17.24%) in the general cohort and 29.56% (SD = 18.19%) in the subcohort. By reducing LDL-C to the threshold, a potential relative risk reduction of 14.8% in the general cohort could avoid 1,173 CVD events over 10 years (subcohort: 15.7% and 454 events). Given first-year inpatient and follow-up costs of $37,300 per CVD event, this risk reduction could save about $1,455 per patient treated to reach the threshold (subcohort: $1,902; 2017 U.S. dollars) over a 10-year period.
CONCLUSIONS: Across multiple health care systems in Indiana, between 34% (general cohort) and 58% (secondary prevention cohort) of patients treated with statins did not achieve therapeutic LDL-C thresholds. Based on current CVD event risk and cost projections, such patients seem to be at increased risk and may represent an important and potentially preventable burden on health care costs.
DISCLOSURES: Funding support for this study was provided by Merck (Kenilworth, NJ). Chase and Boggs are employed by Merck. Simpson is a consultant to Merck and Pfizer. The other authors have nothing to disclose.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness and acceptability of mobile telephone adherence support for management of depression in the Mental Health in Primary Care (MeHPriC) project, Lagos, Nigeria: A pilot cluster randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: To evaluate the effectiveness and acceptability of adding a mobile telephone adherence support to a Collaborative Stepped Care (CSC) intervention for primary care management of depression.
METHODS: A pilot cluster randomised controlled trial with 10 primary care centres in Lagos Nigeria, randomised into either the mobile telephone supported CSC (mCSC) group or the ordinary CSC (oCSC) group in ratio 1:1. The 5 mCSC clusters received in addition to the CSC intervention, a series of tailored informational text messages and reminders. Participants were adults (18-60 years) with depression. The primary outcome was the rate of adherence to intervention at 6th and 12th months follow up. Analysis was by intention to treat.
RESULTS: The mCSC group (n = 439 participants) had significantly better adherence rate compared to oCSC group (n = 456 participants) at 6th month (90.0% vs 67.8%, ARR 1.31, 95% CI 1.22-1.40) and at 12th month follow up (78.1% vs 59.2%, ARR 1.30, 95% CI 1.20-1.43). Compared to the oCSC group, the mCSC had significantly higher recovery rate, better quality of life, retention in treatment, was more cost effective and had high level of acceptance amongst clients LIMITATION: Self rating scales were not used for adherence score. We analysed according to Intention to Treat and we have not included mild depression CONCLUSION: The addition of our mobile telephony support significantly improves adherence and clinical outcomes for CSC intervention and was cost effective and acceptable to clients. Mobile telephone technology can substantially aid the scale up of mental health services in developing countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development and proof of concept of a blended physiotherapeutic intervention for patients with non-specific low back pain.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To develop a blended physiotherapeutic intervention for patients with non-specific low back pain (e-Exercise LBP) and evaluate its proof of concept.
DESIGN: Focus groups with patients, physiotherapists, and eHealth and LBP experts were conducted to investigate values according to the development of e-Exercise LBP. Proof of concept was evaluated in a multicentre study.
SETTING: Dutch primary care physiotherapy practices (n=21 therapists).
PARTICIPANTS: Adults with non-specific LBP (n=41).
INTERVENTION: e-Exercise LBP was developed based on clinical LBP guidelines and the focus groups, using the Center for eHealth Research Roadmap. Face-to-face physiotherapy sessions were integrated with a web application consisting of 12 information lessons, video-supported exercises and a physical activity module with the option to gradually increase individuals' level of physical activity. The intervention could be tailored to patients' risk of persistent disabling LBP, according to the STarT Back Screening Tool.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Functional disability, pain, physical activity, sedentary behaviour and fear-avoidance beliefs, measured at baseline and 12 weeks.
RESULTS: After 12 weeks, improvements were found in functional disability [Quebec Back Pain Disability Scale: mean difference (MD) -12.2/100; 95% confidence interval (CI) 8.3 to 16.1], pain (Numeric Pain Rating Scale: MD -2.8/10; 95% CI 2.1 to 3.6), subjective physical activity (Short Questionnaire to Assess Health Enhancing Physical Activity: MD 11.5minutes/day; 95% CI -47.8 to 24.8) and objective sedentary behaviour (ActiGraph: MD -23.0minutes/day; 95% CI -8.9 to 55.0). Small improvements were found in objective physical activity and fear-avoidance beliefs. The option to gradually increase physical activity was activated for six patients (15%). On average, patients received seven face-to-face sessions alongside the web application.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study provide the first indication of the effectiveness of e-Exercise LBP, particularly for disability and pain among patients with LBP. Future studies will focus on end-user experiences and (cost-) effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost savings associated with an outpatient otolaryngology telemedicine clinic.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To test the null hypothesis that there is no difference in patient cost savings between the telemedicine and traditional face-to-face approach. The second objective was to assess the financial impact on the peripheral healthcare system, as compared with staffing a conventional clinic with "on-site" otolaryngologist.
METHODS: Twenty-one patients were enrolled. To assess "patient-benefit" cost savings, a model was formulated that would utilize a certified nurse practitioner (CNP) to conduct a general otolaryngology clinic at the peripheral site, as compared with having to travel to the tertiary referral center. A "peripheral site-benefit" cost analysis was performed to assess costs of initiating and operating a telemedicine clinic at the peripheral site, compared with having an on-site otolaryngologist.
RESULTS: The total patient-benefit cost savings would be $182.09 per patient per encounter and $333.22 per patient annually. The fixed cost to the peripheral site to initiate the telemedicine system was $9,895. Two hundred sixty telemedicine encounters would be needed to offset the initial cost, and 537 encounters would be needed to surpass revenue of the conventional clinic.
CONCLUSION: A real-time telemedicine otolaryngology clinic provides significant cost savings for both patients and the peripheral healthcare system. This pilot study supports telemedicine as a cost-effective approach to providing general otolaryngology care to rural patients.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4.
Label Included: 0

Title: Offline Digital Education for Postregistration Health Professions: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The shortage and disproportionate distribution of health care workers worldwide is further aggravated by the inadequacy of training programs, difficulties in implementing conventional curricula, deficiencies in learning infrastructure, or a lack of essential equipment. Offline digital education has the potential to improve the quality of health professions education.
OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this systematic review was to evaluate the effectiveness of offline digital education compared with various controls in improving learners' knowledge, skills, attitudes, satisfaction, and patient-related outcomes. The secondary objectives were (1) to assess the cost-effectiveness of the interventions and (2) to assess adverse effects of the interventions on patients and learners.
METHODS: We searched 7 electronic databases and 2 trial registries for randomized controlled trials published between January 1990 and August 2017. We used Cochrane systematic review methods.
RESULTS: A total of 27 trials involving 4618 individuals were included in this systematic review. Meta-analyses found that compared with no intervention, offline digital education (CD-ROM) may increase knowledge in nurses (standardized mean difference [SMD]=1.88; 95% CI 1.14 to 2.62; participants=300; studies=3; I2=80%; low certainty evidence). A meta-analysis of 2 studies found that compared with no intervention, the effects of offline digital education (computer-assisted training [CAT]) on nurses and physical therapists' knowledge were uncertain (SMD 0.55; 95% CI -0.39 to 1.50; participants=64; I2=71%; very low certainty evidence). A meta-analysis of 2 studies found that compared with traditional learning, a PowerPoint presentation may improve the knowledge of patient care personnel and pharmacists (SMD 0.76; 95% CI 0.29 to 1.23; participants=167; I2=54%; low certainty evidence). A meta-analysis of 4 studies found that compared with traditional training, the effects of computer-assisted training on skills in community (mental health) therapists, nurses, and pharmacists were uncertain (SMD 0.45; 95% CI -0.35 to 1.25; participants=229; I2=88%; very low certainty evidence). A meta-analysis of 4 studies found that compared with traditional training, offline digital education may have little effect or no difference on satisfaction scores in nurses and mental health therapists (SMD -0.07; 95% CI -0.42 to 0.28, participants=232; I2=41%; low certainty evidence). A total of 2 studies found that offline digital education may have little or no effect on patient-centered outcomes when compared with blended learning. For skills and attitudes, the results were mixed and inconclusive. None of the studies reported adverse or unintended effects of the interventions. Only 1 study reported costs of interventions. The risk of bias was predominantly unclear and the certainty of the evidence ranged from low to very low.
CONCLUSIONS: There is some evidence to support the effectiveness of offline digital education in improving learners' knowledge and insufficient quality and quantity evidence for the other outcomes. Future high-quality studies are needed to increase generalizability and inform use of this modality of education.
Label Included: 0

Title: Where Does Telemedicine Achieve a Cost Reduction Effect? Cost Minimization Analysis of Teleradiology Services in Japan.
Abstract: Background: Telemedicine as a technology is expected to resolve issues such as doctor shortages and disparities in medical services. However, high costs of system installation and maintenance inhibit its widespread use.Introduction: This study involved a cost minimization analysis for installation of a teleradiology system in the Hokkaido prefecture of Japan. Conditions under which system utilization is cost-efficient and system utilization is effective for cost reduction were analyzed.Materials and Methods: A cost minimization analysis was conducted using three geospatial points of 50, 100, and 200 km from Sapporo city, the prefectural capital of Hokkaido, assuming a central imaging diagnosis center in Sapporo. The analysis was conducted from the standpoint of both patients and requesting hospitals.Results: From the patient's standpoint, a cost reduction effect was observed at all three distances from system installation. In contrast, from the hospital's standpoint, a cost reduction effect was found only when teleradiology examination was conducted from a distance of at least 100 km from Sapporo.Discussion: Results show that the cost reduction effect for patients increased as the travel distance increased. Although the teleradiology service is beneficial for a wide range of patients, the financial burden on requesting hospitals is significant.Conclusions: The following conditions were found necessary to reduce the requesting hospital's financial burden: the hospital should be far from the imaging diagnosis center, an inexpensive system is to be selected, and the system needs to be utilized continuously.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hardwiring diagnostic stewardship using electronic ordering restrictions for gastrointestinal pathogen testing.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of a hard stop in the electronic health record (EHR) on inappropriate gastrointestinal pathogen panel testing (GIPP).
DESIGN: We used a quasi-experimental study to evaluate testing before and after the implementation of an EHR alert to stop inappropriate GIPP ordering.
SETTING: Midwest academic medical center.
PARTICIPANTS: Hospitalized patients with diarrhea for which GIPP testing was ordered, between January 2016 through March 2017 (period 1) and April 2017 through June 2018 (period 2).
INTERVENTION: A hard stop in the EHR prevented clinicians from ordering a GIPP more than once per admission or in patients hospitalized for &gt;72 hours.
RESULTS: During period 1, 1,587 GIPP tests were ordered over 212,212 patient days, at a rate of 7.48 per 1,000 patient days. In period 2, 1,165 GIPP tests were ordered over 222,343 patient days, at a rate of 5.24 per 1,000 patient days. The Poisson model estimated a 30% reduction in total GIPP ordering rates between the 2 periods (relative risk, 0.70; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.63-0.78; P 72 hours.
Label Included: 0

Title: Reduced medical spending associated with increased use of a remote diabetes management program and lower mean blood glucose values.
Abstract: Aims: Many new mobile technologies are available to assist people in managing chronic conditions, but data on the association between the use of these technologies and medical spending remains limited. As the available digital technology offerings to aid in diabetes management increase, it is important to understand their impact on medical spending. The aim of this study was to investigate the financial impact of a remote digital diabetes management program using medical claims and real-time blood glucose data. Materials and methods: A retrospective analysis of multivariate difference-in-difference and instrumental variables regression modeling was performed using data collected from a remote digital diabetes management program. All employees with diabetes were invited, in a phased introduction, to join the program. Data included blood glucose (BG) values captured remotely from members via connected BG meters and medical spending claims. Participants included members (those who accepted the invitation, n = 2,261) and non-members (n = 8,741) who received health insurance benefits from three self-insured employers. Medical spending was compared between people with well-controlled (BG ≤ 154 mg/dL) and poorly controlled (BG > 154 mg/dL) diabetes. Results: Program access was associated with a 21.9% (p < 0.01) decrease in medical spending, which translates into a $88 saving per member per month at 1 year. Compared to non-members, members experienced a 10.7% (p < 0.01) reduction in diabetes-related medical spending and a 24.6% (p < 0.01) reduction in spending on office-based services. Well-controlled BG values were associated with 21.4% (p = 0.03) lower medical spending. Limitations and conclusions: Remote digital diabetes management is associated with decreased medical spending at 1 year. Reductions in spending increased with active utilization. It will be beneficial for future studies to analyze the long-term effects of the remote diabetes management program and assess impacts on patient health and well-being.
Label Included: 0

Title: How Digital Health Can Be Applied for Preventing and Managing Hypertension.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To summarize available data on digital health strategies for the prevention and management of hypertension, discussing the state-of-the-art, current limitations, and future perspective of this approach.
RECENT FINDINGS: Technology is developing at a fast pace and is providing a number of novel solutions for cardiovascular patients, in particular in the field of digital health. Even if the benefit of these approaches is intuitive, the methodological heterogeneity of the available studies and their small sample size have made it difficult to provide robust evidence regarding the usefulness and cost-effectiveness of digital health technologies. Recently, studies with larger sample sizes and some meta-analyses have provided more convincing data on the favorable impact of such strategies. Digital health solutions may offer a chance to improve primary prevention and for timely diagnosis and effective management of hypertension. Results from small studies are promising, but there is a strong need for larger, long-term, and well-designed clinical trials to make these novel solutions really applicable in real-life patients' care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Comparison of an On-Premise IT Solution with a Cloud-Based Solution for Electronic Health Records in a Dental School Clinic.
Abstract: Electronic health records (EHRs) are increasingly moving towards cloud-based web environments. While cloud-based EHRs claim substantial benefits at reduced cost, little cost-benefit research exists for dental schools. The aim of this study was to examine the cost-benefits of a cloud-based EHR compared to an on-premise client-server EHR in the University of Michigan School of Dentistry (U-M Dent). Data were collected in 2016 from the U-M Dent cost-benefit comparison of tangible and intangible factors associated with implementing a new EHR, using the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) framework from EDUCAUSE. The TCO framework assessed three factors: foundational (overarching aspects: three items), qualitative (intangibles: 56 items), and quantitative (actual costs). Stakeholders performed factor grading, and relative assessment scores were derived for each item as well as the overall factor. The cloud-based EHR solution received higher foundational and qualitative factor summary scores. The overall cost of an on-premise solution over a two-year period was approximately $2,000,000 higher than a cloud-based solution. Cloud solutions did not carry any hidden costs, while such costs accounted for 8% (~$540,000) of the overall costs of the on-premise solution. Across the two-year period, both one-time and ongoing costs were higher for the on-premise solution than the cloud-based solution (by 40.5% and 20.5%, respectively). This study found that a cloud-based EHR system in the U-M Dent offered significant cost savings and unique benefits that were not available with the on-premise EHR solution. Based on cost, the U-M Dent has made a case for cloud-based EHR systems.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patients' and Doctors' Perceptions of a Mobile Phone-Based Consultation Service for Maternal, Neonatal, and Infant Health Care in Bangladesh: A Mixed-Methods Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A mobile-based consultation service, or telehealth, can be used for remote consultations with health care professionals for screening, self-care management, and referral. In rural Bangladesh, where there is high demand for scarce male and even scarcer female doctors, remote consultations may help women seeking maternal and child health care. Aponjon is a mHealth service in Bangladesh that provides weekly voice or text messages to pregnant women, new mothers, and family members on various aspects of maternal, neonatal, and infant health. Subscribers can also access a dedicated 24*7 call center to discuss maternal, neonatal, and infant health or emergencies with medically trained doctors. The service provides advice, primary diagnoses, prescriptions, and referrals to subscriber callers.
OBJECTIVE: We investigated the Aponjon service to understand access, acceptability, usability, benefits, and challenges of a mobile phone-based consultation service.
METHODS: We conducted call log data analysis for September to November 2015 to understand how many unique subscribers accessed the service, who accessed the service, the geographical distribution of callers, and the purpose of the calls. We also conducted a qualitative exploratory substudy of eight married women and eight married men who were subscribers to and accessed the service during this time to understand their experiences. We interviewed 11 doctors from the same service who provided phone consultations to subscribers.
RESULTS: Approximately 3894 unique subscribers accessed the service for single or multiple consultations during the study period; 68.36% (2662/3894) of subscribers were from rural households, and 53.00% (2064/3894) of calls were made by pregnant women or new mothers. Approximately 96.08% (5081/5288) calls were nonurgent, 2.69% (142/5288) semiurgent, and 1.23% (65/5288) urgent. Almost 64.7% (134/207) semiurgent or urgent calls came between 8 PM and 8 AM. Callers found the consultation service trustworthy, cost-effective, and convenient. The doctors dispelled misconceptions and promoted good health care practices, regular health check-ups, and responsible use of medicine. They helped families understand the severity of sicknesses and advised them to seek care at health facilities for semiurgent or urgent conditions. The service lacked a pro-poor policy to support talk times of subscribers from poor households and a proper referral system to help patients find the right care at the right facilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Although a regular messaging service is constrained by a one-way communication system, this service using the same platform, gave subscribers access to an abbreviated "consultation" with medical doctors. The consultations provided subscribers with valued medical advice and support, although they were limited in their population reach and their integration into the wider medical system. Further research is required to understand the impact of advice and referral, cost-effectiveness, and willingness to pay for mHealth consultation services, but this research suggests that these services should be supported or even expanded.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-minimisation analysis of home care reablement for older people in England: A modelling study.
Abstract: Many governments have introduced or encouraged home-care reablement schemes for older people at home with the aim of improving outcomes and reducing costs. We examined if such schemes have the potential to reduce costs from the perspective of the National Health Service (NHS) and Personal Social Services (PSS) in England. Our study was carried out to inform recommendations of a national guideline. Cost-minimisation analysis was carried out using decision-analytic Markov modelling. Home-care reablement was compared with standard home care. Costs included those of the intervention, home care and hospital admission. Uncertainty was explored using univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analysis. Mean costs per person were £56,499 (95% confidence interval 55,690 to 57,307) in the reablement group, and £58,560 (95% confidence interval 57,800 to 59,319) in the standard care group. The mean difference was -£2,061 (95% confidence interval 1,933 to 2,129). The probability that home-care reablement costs less than standard home care was 94.5% (95% confidence interval 93.1 to 95.9). In sensitivity analyses, this probability remained above 85% in all scenarios. Home-care reablement can be a successful cost-minimisation strategy for supporting some older people. More research is needed about the impact of home-care reablement on health outcomes for different groups of older people; and the effects of different durations of reablement on outcomes and costs for different subpopulations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of ultrasound and mHealth to improve perinatal outcomes in low and middle income countries.
Abstract: The explosion of mobile health and portable obstetric ultrasound interventions in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) reflects the optimism that technology can help reduce persistently high rates of maternal and neonatal mortality and morbidity in these settings. While these technology-driven interventions have had success in improving aspects of antenatal and perinatal care, they have not clearly demonstrated reductions in mortality. The expanding synergy between mobile health (mHealth) and ultrasound technology shows promise to enhance care, but it will likely take combining these technological advances with system-wide approaches that also address referral patterns and infrastructure barriers to improve outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Health (mHealth) technology for improved screening, patient involvement and optimising integrated care in atrial fibrillation: The mAFA (mAF-App) II randomised trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Current management of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) is limited by low detection of AF, non-adherence to guidelines and lack of consideration of patient's preferences, thus highlighting the need for a holistic and integrated approach to AF management. This study aims to determine whether a mHealth technology-supported AF integrated management strategy will reduce AF-related adverse events.
METHODS/DESIGN: The mAFA II trial is a prospective, cluster randomised controlled trial. The 40 sites will be randomised to mAFA-integrated care intervention or usual care arms. Prior to randomisation, study sites will be paired to be matched in size and the proportion of study eligible patients. All AF patients aged over 18 years old with CHA2 DS2 -VASc score ≥ 2 will be enrolled. Assuming a composite adverse event rate of 10% pre-intervention, reduced to 5% after intervention, we aim to recruit 3660 patients assuming a 10% loss to follow-up. The primary study endpoint is a composite of stroke/thromboembolism, all-cause death and rehospitalisation. Ancillary analyses would determine patient-related outcome measures, health economics and cost effectiveness, as well as an embedded qualitative study.
DISCUSSION: The mAFA II trial will provide evidence for an integrated care approach to holistic AF care, supported by mobile health technology to improve screening, patient involvement and optimisation of management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Teleophthalmology Screening for Diabetic Retinopathy in Brazil: Applicability and Economic Assessment.
Abstract: Introduction: Early diagnosis and prompt therapy of diabetic retinopathy (DR) are essential to prevent visual loss, but access of the diabetic population to regular fundus examination by an ophthalmologist remains a challenge. Methods: This prospective comparative study, including two referral health centers in the state of Minas Gerais, Southeastern Brazil, assesses applicability and economic viability of fundus photography-based teleophthalmology screening for DR. Results: A total of 2,662 eyes of 1,331 patients were examined at both health centers. Mean age was 57 years, with 836 (62.8%) females. Quality of fundus photographs was acceptable for 2,398 eyes (90.1%). The presence of DR was disclosed in 394 patients (29.6%), with 28 patients (2.1%) presenting evidence of advanced disease (severe nonproliferative or proliferative DR). Economic assessment revealed cost reduction of 28.76 US$ per patient, with a calculated break-even point of 112 exams/month or 1,344 exams/year. Conclusions: For the situation studied under the perspective of public health service, teleophthalmology was viable and cost effective when compared with ordinary ophthalmology examination. In addition, teleophthalmology allowed rapid resolution of repressed demand for fundus examination of diabetic patients locally at the two sites, with early DR diagnoses and referrals. Fundus photography-based teleophthalmology was a viable, effective, and significantly cheaper strategy for the screening of DR.
Label Included: 0

Title: Diversity of practices in telerehabilitation for children with disabilities and effective intervention characteristics: results from a systematic review.
Abstract: Purpose: To describe the characteristics and effectiveness of pediatric telerehabilitation interventions offered to children 0-12 years old or to their families.Methods: A systematic review was conducted on randomized control trials published between 2007 and 2018 involving at least one rehabilitation professional who provided services remotely. Information was extracted about key study, participants and intervention characteristics. The percentage of outcomes that improved were computed per study, and per intervention characteristic.Results: Out of 4472 screened articles, 23 were included. Most studies were published after 2016 and evaluated outcomes related to the child's behavior (n = 12, 52.2%) or to the parent (n = 10, 43.5%), such as parental skills or stress. Overall, 56.1% (SD: 38.5%) of evaluated outcomes improved following telerehabilitation. A great diversity of population and teleintervention characteristics was observed. Effective interventions tended to target parents, centered around an exercise program, used a coaching approach, focused on improving children's behavioral functioning, lasted >8 weeks and were offered at least once a week.Conclusions: Intervention characteristics that appear to yield better outcomes should inform the development of future telerehabilitation studies, especially in populations for whom telerehabilitation is currently understudied (e.g., children's with physical functioning difficulties). Future trials should compare telerehabilitation interventions to well-described evidence-based face-to-face interventions, and document their cost-effectiveness.Implications for RehabilitationDespite a great variety in practices, telerehabilitation might be as effective as face-to-face interventions, across disciplines, for a variety of clinical outcomes.Telerehabilitation might be more effective when coaching approaches are used, especially to achieve outcomes related to children's behavior or parental skills.Further research is required to better understand the characteristics of effective telerehabilitation interventions, and to determine how these characteristics may differ for specific populations and outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost and cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions for the prevention and control of type 2 diabetes mellitus: a protocol for a systematic review.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) remains one of the most common chronic diseases of adulthood which creates high degrees of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The incidence of T2DM continues to rise and recently, mHealth interventions have been increasingly used in the prevention, monitoring and management of T2DM. The aim of this study is to systematically review the published evidence on cost and cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions for T2DM, as well as assess the quality of reporting of the evidence.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A comprehensive review of PubMed, EMBASE, Science Direct and Web of Science of articles published until January 2019 will be conducted. Included studies will be partial or full economic evaluations which provide cost or cost-effectiveness results for mHealth interventions targeting individuals diagnosed with, or at risk of, T2DM. The quality of reporting evidence will be assessed using the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist. Results will be presented using a flowchart following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protocols (PRISMA-P) guidelines. Graphical and tabulated representations of the results will be created for both descriptive and numerical results. The cost and cost-effectiveness values will be presented as reported by the original studies as well as converted into international dollars to allow comparability. As we are predicting heterogenous results, we will conduct a narrative and interpretive analysis of the data.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: No formal approval or review of ethics is required for this systematic review as it will involve the collection and analysis of secondary data. This protocol follows the current PRISMA-P guidelines. The review will provide information on the cost and cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions targeting T2DM. These results will be disseminated through publication and submission to conferences for presentations and posters.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42019123476.
Label Included: 0

Title: The impact of telehealth care on health-related quality of life of patients with heart failure: Results from the Danish TeleCare North heart failure trial.
Abstract: AIM: The aim of this study was to assess the impact on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of a telehealth care solution compared with usual practice of patients with heart failure (HF).
METHODS: A randomized controlled trial with a telehealth care solution (Telekit) as the intervention (with a focus on self-empowerment achieved by engaging patients in their own illness through self-monitoring) combined with usual care and usual care as the control. The primary outcome was a change in HRQoL as measured by the Short Form-36 (SF-36) questionnaire Physical Component Summary (PCS) score. Secondary outcomes were changes in HRQoL as measured by the SF-36 questionnaire Mental Component Summary (MSC) score and the HF disease-specific questionnaire Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire 12 (KCCQ12) score, all of which were assessed from baseline to approximately 12 months' follow-up between the two groups. Outcomes were assessed via unadjusted and adjusted analyses.
RESULTS: At baseline, 299 (145 interventions, 154 controls) patients were enrolled. In the primary analysis (n = 299), the adjusted intervention effects were PCS -0.81 (95% CI -2.7-1.1), MCS 4.66 (95% CI 1.8-7.5) and KCCQ12 3.67 (95% CI -0.7-8.1). Only the change in MCS was statistically significant. An unadjusted analysis replicated the primary analysis. Complete case analyses (n = 193) generally resulted in a lower intervention effect on the PCS score, but the difference remained statistically insignificant.
CONCLUSIONS: Only the MCS score was significantly higher in the telehealth care group compared to the control group.ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02860013), July 28, 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy of Telepsychiatry in Refugee Populations: A Systematic Review of the Evidence.
Abstract: Introduction Telepsychiatry is becoming an increasingly appealing option for mental health treatment due to its ability to overcome barriers which prevent certain demographics from having access to mental health services. There is a surprising lack of research being done on this promising mode of health care delivery. The aim of this study is to evaluate the existing literature in order to determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telepsychiatry in resource-constrained environments. Methods Literature searches were performed in PsychINFO, PubMed, Medline, EMBASE, Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, and the Cochrane Library Controlled Trial Registry databases (2000 - May 2017). A search of the following terms was used: telemedicine; telemedical; telepsychiatry; telepsychiatric; teleconsultation; e-health; video conference; and telecare. Type of mental disorder and intervention, along with the clinical outcome or patient satisfaction, were all identified. Exclusion criteria included studies with a sample size of fewer than 10 cases, as well as studies which failed to analyze intervention outcomes. Results Of the 1,477 identified articles, 14 randomized controlled trials were included for review. Despite the methodological limitations and the small number of existing studies, there appears to be limited evidence pointing towards the efficacy of telepsychiatry in resource-constrained environments, although patients and providers tend to prefer face-to-face treatment over video conferencing. Two of the studies included in this paper found video conferencing to be more effective than face-to-face treatment, while none reported the opposite. At the very least, we hypothesize that psychotherapeutic treatment delivered via video conferencing is just as effective as a traditional treatment, albeit less desirable. Conclusion More research is required in order to further evaluate the efficacy of telepsychiatry in the management of mental illness, as there is a current lack of scientific evidence to draw any conclusions. However, there exists a strong hypothesis that telepsychiatric treatment yields the same results as the traditional, in-person therapy and that telepsychiatry is a useful alternative when traditional therapy is not possible. Countries with substantial numbers of refugees living in resource-constrained areas, such as camps, should be encouraged to develop telepsychiatry programs.
Label Included: 0

Title: The role of prehabilitation with a telerehabilitation system prior to total knee arthroplasty.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the usage of prehabilitation on a telehealth platform prior to total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and its impact on short-term outcomes. Specifically, the study examined whether patients participating in a prehabilitation program impacted length of stay (LOS) and discharge disposition.
METHODS: A total of 476 consecutive patients who underwent TKA at three institutions were included. The average age of the 476 patients was 65.1 years (range, 35 and 93 years). There was a total of 114 patients who utilized the novel prehabilitation program that provided exercises, nutritional advice, education regarding home safety and reducing medical risks, and pain management skills prior to surgery. A group of 362 patients who did not utilize the program formed the control cohort. The outcomes evaluated were LOS and discharge disposition to home, home with health aide (HHA), or skilled nursing facility (SNF).
RESULTS: The average LOS in the prehabilitation group was significantly shorter than in the control group (2.0 vs. 2.7 days, P<0.001). Additionally, prehabilitation patients had more favorable discharge disposition status in comparison to the control group. In the prehabilitation patients, 77.2% went home without assistance, compared to 42.8% in the control group (P<0.001). Also, significantly fewer patients in the prehabilitation group were discharged to a SNF when compared to the control group (1.8% vs. 21.8%, P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Prehabilitation preceding TKA in the current study showed early benefits in LOS and discharge disposition. This study will help expand the current literature and educate orthopaedic surgeons on a novel technology. To truly appreciate the role of telerehabilitation in the setting of TKA, further investigation is needed to investigate long-term outcomes, cost analysis, and patient and clinician satisfaction.
Label Included: 0

Title: 5-year versus risk-category-specific screening intervals for cardiovascular disease prevention: a cohort study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Clinical guidelines suggest preventive interventions such as statin therapy for individuals with a high estimated 10-year risk of major cardiovascular events. For those with a low or intermediate estimated risk, risk-factor screenings are recommended at 5-year intervals; this interval is based on expert opinion rather than on direct research evidence. Using longitudinal data on the progression of cardiovascular disease risk over time, we compared different screening intervals in terms of timely detection of high-risk individuals, cardiovascular events prevented, and health-care costs.
METHODS: We used data from participants in the British Whitehall II study (aged 40-64 years at baseline) who had repeated biomedical screenings at 5-year intervals and linked these data to electronic health records between baseline (Aug 7, 1991, to May 10, 1993) and June 30, 2015. We estimated participants' 10-year risk of a major cardiovascular event (myocardial infarction, cardiac death, and fatal or non-fatal stroke) using the revised Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease (ASCVD) calculator. We used multistate Markov modelling to estimate optimum screening intervals on the basis of progression rates from low-risk and intermediate-risk categories to the high-risk category (ie, ≥7·5% 10-year risk of a major cardiovascular event). Our assessment criteria included person-years spent in a high-risk category before detection, the number of major cardiovascular events prevented and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained, and screening costs.
FINDINGS: Of 6964 participants (mean age 50·0 years [SD 6·0] at baseline) with 152 700 person-years of follow-up (mean follow-up 22·0 years [SD 5·0]), 1686 participants progressed to the high-risk category and 617 had a major cardiovascular event. With the 5-year screening intervals, participants spent 7866 (95% CI 7130-8658) person-years unrecognised in the high-risk group. For individuals in the low, intermediate-low, and intermediate-high risk categories, 21 alternative risk category-based screening intervals outperformed the 5-yearly screening protocol. Screening intervals at 7 years, 4 years, and 1 year for those in the low, intermediate-low, and intermediate-high-risk category would reduce the number of person-years spent unrecognised in the high-risk group by 62% (95% CI 57-66; 4894 person-years), reduce the number of major cardiovascular events by 8% (7-9; 49 events), and raise 44 QALYs (40-49) for the study population.
INTERPRETATION: In terms of timely preventive interventions, the 5-year screening intervals were unnecessarily frequent for low-risk individuals and insufficiently frequent for intermediate-risk individuals. Screening intervals based on risk-category-specific progression rates would perform better in terms of preventing major cardiovascular disease events and improving cost-effectiveness.
FUNDING: Medical Research Council, British Heart Association, National Institutes on Aging, NordForsk, Academy of Finland.
Label Included: 0

Title: The iBobbly Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander app project: Study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Suicide amongst Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities occurs at twice the rate of the general population and, with significant barriers to treatment, help-seeking prior to a suicide attempt is low. This trial aims to test the effectiveness of an app (iBobbly) designed with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people for reducing suicidal ideation.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a two-arm randomised controlled trial that will compare iBobbly to a wait-list control condition. The trial aims to recruit Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander participants aged 16 years and over to test iBobbly, which is a self-help app delivering content based on acceptance and commitment therapy. The primary outcome for the study is suicidal ideation, and secondary outcomes include depression, hopelessness, distress tolerance, perceived burdensomeness and thwarted belonging, and help-seeking intentions. Data will be collected for both groups at baseline, post-intervention (after 6 weeks of app use), and at 6 months post-baseline (with a final 12-month follow-up for the iBobbly group). Primary analysis will compare changes in suicidal ideation for the intervention condition relative to the wait-list control condition using mixed models. An examination of the cost-effectiveness of the intervention compared to the control condition will be conducted.
DISCUSSION: If effective, iBobbly could overcome many barriers to help-seeking amongst a group of people who are at increased risk of suicide. It may provide a low-cost, accessible intervention that can reach more people. This trial will add to a sparse literature on indigenous suicide prevention and will increase our knowledge about the effectiveness of e-health interventions for suicide prevention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, ACTRN12614000686606 . Registered on 30 June 2014.
Label Included: 0

Title: What are the positive drivers and potential barriers to implementation of hospital at home selected by low-risk DECAF score in the UK: a qualitative study embedded within a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Hospital at home (HAH) for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation selected by low-risk Dyspnoea, Eosinopenia, Consolidation, Acidaemia and atrial Fibrillation (DECAF) score is clinical and cost-effective; DECAF is a prognostic score indicating risk of mortality. Up to 50% of admitted patients are suitable, a much larger proportion than earlier services. Introduction of new models of care is challenging, but may be facilitated by informed engagement with stakeholders. This qualitative study sought to identify facilitators and barriers to implementation of HAH.
DESIGN: Semistructured interviews, data were analysed using thematic-construct analysis.
SETTING: Interviews were conducted within patients' homes and hospitals in North East England.
PARTICIPANTS: 89 participants were interviewees; 44 patients, 15 carers, 15 physicians, 11 specialist nurses and 4 managers.
RESULTS: Facilitators include the following: (1) availability of home comforts and maintaining independence (with positive influences on perceived rate of recovery, sleep quality and convenience for friends, family and carers) and (2) confidence in the continuity of HAH care. Barriers include the following: (1) fear of being alone at home; (2) privacy issues and not wanting visitors and (3) resistance to change. Clinician concerns occasionally delayed return home, principally during the early phase of the trial. Nurses cited higher workload and greater responsibility, but with additional resource and training; overall, they viewed HAH positively. Operational concerns included keeping medical records in a patient's home and inability to capture activity within current payment systems.
CONCLUSION: HAH selected by DECAF was preferred to inpatient care by most patients and their families. Implementation in other hospitals will require education, training and service planning, tailored to overcome the identified barriers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN29082260.
Label Included: 0

Title: A systematic review of just-in-time adaptive interventions (JITAIs) to promote physical activity.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Progress in mobile health (mHealth) technology has enabled the design of just-in-time adaptive interventions (JITAIs). We define JITAIs as having three features: behavioural support that directly corresponds to a need in real-time; content or timing of support is adapted or tailored according to input collected by the system since support was initiated; support is system-triggered. We conducted a systematic review of JITAIs for physical activity to identify their features, feasibility, acceptability and effectiveness.
METHODS: We searched Scopus, Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, Web of Science, DBLP, ACM Digital Library, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, ClinicalTrials.gov and the ISRCTN register using terms related to physical activity, mHealth interventions and JITAIs. We included primary studies of any design reporting data about JITAIs, irrespective of population, age and setting. Outcomes included physical activity, engagement, uptake, feasibility and acceptability. Paper screening and data extraction were independently validated. Synthesis was narrative. We used the mHealth Evidence Reporting and Assessment checklist to assess quality of intervention descriptions.
RESULTS: We screened 2200 titles, 840 abstracts, 169 full-text papers, and included 19 papers reporting 14 unique JITAIs, including six randomised studies. Five JITAIs targeted both physical activity and sedentary behaviour, five sedentary behaviour only, and four physical activity only. JITAIs prompted breaks following sedentary periods and/or suggested physical activities during opportunistic moments, typically over three to four weeks. Feasibility challenges related to the technology, sensor reliability and timeliness of just-in-time messages. Overall, participants found JITAIs acceptable. We found mixed evidence for intervention effects on behaviour, but no study was sufficiently powered to detect any effects. Common behaviour change techniques were goal setting (behaviour), prompts/cues, feedback on behaviour and action planning. Five studies reported a theory-base. We found lack of evidence about cost-effectiveness, uptake, reach, impact on health inequalities, and sustained engagement.
CONCLUSIONS: Research into JITAIs to increase physical activity and reduce sedentary behaviour is in its early stages. Consistent use and a shared definition of the term 'JITAI' will aid evidence synthesis. We recommend robust evaluation of theory and evidence-based JITAIs in representative populations. Decision makers and health professionals need to be cautious in signposting patients to JITAIs until such evidence is available, although they are unlikely to cause health-related harm.
REFERENCE: PROSPERO 2017 CRD42017070849.
Label Included: 0

Title: Rationale and Design of EMPOWER, a Pragmatic Randomized Trial of Automated Hovering in Patients With Congestive Heart Failure.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Congestive heart failure is a major cause of morbidity, mortality, and cost. Disease management programs have shown promise but lack firm evidence of effectiveness and scalability. We describe the motivation, design, and planned analyses of EMPOWER (Electronic Monitoring of Patients Offers Ways to Enhance Recovery), a randomized clinical trial of an innovative intervention incorporating behavioral economic principles with remote monitoring technology embedded within a healthcare system.
METHODS AND RESULTS: EMPOWER is an ongoing, pragmatic, randomized clinical trial comparing usual care to an automated hovering intervention that includes patient-level incentives for daily weight monitoring and diuretic adherence combined with automated feedback into the clinical care pathway, enabling real-time response to concerning clinical symptoms. Identification of eligible patients began in May 2016, and implementation of the intervention is feasible. Trial processes are embedded into existing clinical pathways. The primary outcome is time to readmission for any cause. Cost-effectiveness analyses are planned to evaluate the healthcare costs and health outcomes of the approach.
CONCLUSIONS: The EMPOWER trial incorporates leading-edge approaches in human motivation, derived from behavioral economics, with contemporary technology to provide scale and exception handling at low cost. The trial is also implemented within the naturalized environment of a health system, as much as possible taking advantage of the existing journeys of patients and workflows of clinicians. A goal of this pragmatic design is to limit resource utilization and also to test an intervention that would need minimal modification to be translated from research into a new way of practice.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov . Unique identifier: NCT02708654.
Label Included: 0

Title: Outcomes and costs of remote patient monitoring among patients with implanted cardiac defibrillators: An economic model based on the PREDICT RM database.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Remote monitoring of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators has been associated with reduced rates of all-cause rehospitalizations and mortality among device recipients, but long-term economic benefits have not been studied.
METHODS AND RESULTS: An economic model was developed using the PREDICT RM database comparing outcomes with and without remote monitoring. The database included patients ages 65 to 89 who received a Boston Scientific device from 2006 to 2010. Parametric survival equations were derived for rehospitalization and mortality to predict outcomes over a maximum time horizon of 25 years. The analysis assessed rehospitalization, mortality, and the cost-effectiveness (expressed as the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year) of remote monitoring versus no remote monitoring. Remote monitoring was associated with reduced mortality; average life expectancy and average quality-adjusted life years increased by 0.77 years and 0.64, respectively (6.85 life years and 5.65 quality-adjusted life years). When expressed per patient-year, remote monitoring patients had fewer subsequent rehospitalizations (by 0.08 per patient-year) and lower hospitalization costs (by $554 per patient year). With longer life expectancies, remote monitoring patients experienced an average of 0.64 additional subsequent rehospitalizations with increased average lifetime hospitalization costs of $2784. Total costs of outpatient and physician claims were higher with remote monitoring ($47 515 vs $42 792), but average per patient-year costs were lower ($6232 vs $6244). The base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $10 752 per quality-adjusted life year, making remote monitoring high-value care.
CONCLUSION: Remote monitoring is a cost-effective approach for the lifetime management of patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of the COPD Patient Management European Trial home-based disease management program.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Efficient management of COPD represents an international challenge. Effective management strategies within the means of limited health care budgets are urgently required. This analysis aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a home-based disease management (DM) intervention vs usual management (UM) in patients from the COPD Patient Management European Trial (COMET).
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness was evaluated in 319 intention-to-treat patients over 12 months in COMET. The analysis captured unplanned all-cause hospitalization days, mortality, and quality-adjusted life expectancy. Costs were evaluated from a National Health Service perspective for France, Germany, and Spain, and in a pooled analysis, and were expressed in 2015 Euros (EUR). Quality of life was assessed using the 15D health-related quality-of-life instrument and mapped to utility scores.
RESULTS: Home-based DM was associated with improved mortality and quality-adjusted life expectancy. DM and UM were associated with equivalent direct costs (DM reduced costs by EUR -37 per patient per year) in the pooled analysis. DM was associated with lower costs in France (EUR -806 per patient per year) and Spain (EUR -51 per patient per year), but higher costs in Germany (EUR 391 per patient per year). Evaluation of cost per death avoided and cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained showed that DM was dominant (more QALYs and cost saving) in France and Spain, and cost-effective in Germany vs UM. Nonparametric bootstrapping analysis, assuming a willingness-to-pay threshold of EUR 20,000 per QALY gained, indicated that the probability of home-based DM being cost-effective vs UM was 87.7% in France, 81.5% in Spain, and 75.9% in Germany.
CONCLUSION: Home-based DM improved clinical outcomes at equivalent cost vs UM in France and Spain, and in the pooled analysis. DM was cost-effective in Germany with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of EUR 2,541 per QALY gained. The COMET home-based DM intervention could represent an attractive alternative to UM for European health care payers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improvement of Disease Management and Cost Effectiveness in Chinese Patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis Using a Smart-Phone Management System: A Prospective Cohort Study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic disease that decreases mobility, function, and quality of life. This study introduced the "Smart-phone SpondyloArthritis Management System" (SpAMS), an interactive mobile health (mHealth) tool designed for AS/spondyloarthritis (SpA) disease management and used SpAMS data to evaluate clinical characteristics of Chinese patients with AS.
METHODS: SpAMS integrates patient's and physician's portals in a smart phone application. The Chinese Ankylosing Spondylitis Prospective Imaging Cohort was launched using SpAMS in April 2016. Patient self-assessments were completed online at baseline and at every subsequent clinic visit. Physician-reported assessments and treatments were recorded by rheumatologists during each visit.
RESULTS: In total, 1201 patients with AS [mean (SD) age, 30.6 (8.7) years; male, 82.6%] were recruited. Mean (SD) disease duration was 8.4 (6.1) years. Past or current symptoms of acute anterior uveitis (AAU), psoriasis, and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) were observed in 21.0%, 3.7%, and 9.4% of patients, respectively. AAU and IBD occurred significantly more in patients with symptom duration > 10 years. The most commonly used medications at baseline were nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (98.2%). Patients using tumour necrosis factor inhibitors accounted for 20.8%, and 66.4% of patients used conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. At baseline, 57.2% of patients had inactive disease (ID)/low disease activity (LDA); this rate significantly improved to 79.2% after a mean follow-up of 13.3 (5.9) months. Compared with relapsed patients, new achievers of ID/LDA underwent more online patient assessments (P < .001). Problems solved in SpAMS caused 29.1% of clinic visits to a tertiary hospital unnecessary. SpAMS saved an average of 5.3 hours and 327.4 RMB per person on traffic expenses; these expenses equalled 16% of the Chinese monthly disposable personal income.
CONCLUSIONS: SpAMS is a time- and cost-saving disease management tool that can help patients with AS perform self-management and provide valuable data to clinicians.
Label Included: 0

Title: Can telehealth reduce health care expenditure? A lesson from German health insurance data.
Abstract: This study analyzes a telemedical program for chronic heart failure in Germany with respect to economic and treatment indicators. The program entails a routine data-based preselection of the insured and specific treatment intensities for low- and high-risk patients. This study complements previous research by considering differentiated end points such as mortality and rehospitalization as well as ambulatory, outpatient, and medication costs to account for potential cost shifts. In addition, different time frames and regional characteristics are dealt with. A difference-in-differences approach accounts for potential self-selection into the voluntary program. Our results challenge the current paradigm of program-induced cost shifting between hospital and ambulatory care. Except for a short-term effect in the lower-risk group, the program is associated with raising hospital admission rates as well as higher costs in all categories, while mortality is significantly reduced. The findings are robust as to various sensitivity checks.
Label Included: 0

Title: Demonstrating the benefits of a multidisciplinary aerodigestive program.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: The Aerodigestive Program (the Aero Program) at Children's Hospital Colorado is a multidisciplinary program focused on airway, digestive, and lung disorders in complex children, involving collaboration between gastroenterology, pulmonology, anesthesiology, and otolaryngology in clinic and operating room. These programs have proliferated as institutions focus on providing greater care coordination and family satisfaction. However, few cost, charge, and satisfaction data exist to support these resource-intensive programs. The goal of this study was to investigate the value of combined triple endoscopy delivered by the Aero Program through analysis of institutional charges, direct costs, operating room efficiency metrics, and parent satisfaction.
STUDY DESIGN: Program evaluation.
METHODS: Finance, satisfaction, efficiency, and quality-of-care metrics were evaluated within and outside of the Aero Program through retrospective queries of electronic health records, administrative databases, and parent surveys at our institution.
RESULTS: Mean anesthesia time in the Aero Program was 54 minutes (49-60; 95% confidence interval), which was significantly less (P < .0001) than the estimated 89 minutes of having the three procedures done separately. Average charges and average direct costs for triple endoscopy were 38.8% and 41.9% less than the sum of the averages for separate procedures, respectively. Parent satisfaction was high for the Aero Program care.
CONCLUSIONS: As organizations move toward greater coordination of care for complex patients, multidisciplinary programs must demonstrate their value by delivering cost-effective care. Aerodigestive programs have the potential to provide satisfying care that is less costly to the organization, insurer, and family. These programs represent a step in the evolution toward higher value care and value-based payment methodology.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4 Laryngoscope, 130:521-525, 2020.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pan-European Economic Analysis to Identify Cost Savings for the Health Care Systems as a Result of Integrating Glucose Monitoring Based Telemedical Approaches Into Diabetes Management.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Self-monitoring of blood glucose supported by the diabetes-app OneTouch Reveal® has demonstrated to improve HbA1c. We aimed at analyzing costs savings related the integration of telemedical features into diabetes management.
METHODS: Data from a randomized controlled trial were used to assess the 10-year risk of patients for fatal myocardial infarction (MI). On the basis of this risk assessments-also related to a 5% or 10% reduction of hypoglycemic episodes-cost savings for the health care systems of five European countries-France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom-were modeled.
RESULTS: HbA1c reduction of 0.92% in insulin-treated type 2 diabetes patients (T2DM) was associated with a 2.3% decreased 10-year risk for fatal MI. In combination with a 10% reduction of hypoglycemic events this risk reduction led to cost savings of €16.1 million (France), €57.8 million (Germany), €30.9 million (Italy), €23.8 million (Spain), and €5.8 million (UK), considering all insulin-treated T2DM patients in the respective countries.
CONCLUSION: Improving metabolic control and thus risk for comorbidities like MI by combining the glucose meter with CRI with telemedical features has the potential to reduce costs for European health care systems.
Label Included: 0

Title: Maximizing Interpretability and Cost-Effectiveness of Surgical Site Infection (SSI) Predictive Models Using Feature-Specific Regularized Logistic Regression on Preoperative Temporal Data.
Abstract: This study describes a novel approach to solve the surgical site infection (SSI) classification problem. Feature engineering has traditionally been one of the most important steps in solving complex classification problems, especially in cases with temporal data. The described novel approach is based on abstraction of temporal data recorded in three temporal windows. Maximum likelihood L1-norm (lasso) regularization was used in penalized logistic regression to predict the onset of surgical site infection occurrence based on available patient blood testing results up to the day of surgery. Prior knowledge of predictors (blood tests) was integrated in the modelling by introduction of penalty factors depending on blood test prices and an early stopping parameter limiting the maximum number of selected features used in predictive modelling. Finally, solutions resulting in higher interpretability and cost-effectiveness were demonstrated. Using repeated holdout cross-validation, the baseline C-reactive protein (CRP) classifier achieved a mean AUC of 0.801, whereas our best full lasso model achieved a mean AUC of 0.956. Best model testing results were achieved for full lasso model with maximum number of features limited at 20 features with an AUC of 0.967. Presented models showed the potential to not only support domain experts in their decision making but could also prove invaluable for improvement in prediction of SSI occurrence, which may even help setting new guidelines in the field of preoperative SSI prevention and surveillance.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital Education for the Management of Chronic Wounds in Health Care Professionals: Protocol for a Systematic Review by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Digital education is "the act of teaching and learning by means of digital technologies." Digital education comprises a wide range of interventions that can be broadly divided into offline digital education, online digital education, digital game-based learning, massive open online courses (MOOCs), psychomotor skills trainers, virtual reality environments, virtual patient simulations, and m-learning. Chronic wounds pose an immense economic and psychosocial burden to patients and the health care system, as caring for them require highly specialized personnel. Current training strategies face significant barriers, such as lack of time due to work commitments, distance from provider centers, and costs. Therefore, there is an increased need to synthesize evidence on the effectiveness of digital education interventions on chronic wounds management in health care professionals.
OBJECTIVE: Our main objective is to assess the effectiveness of digital education as a stand-alone approach or as part of a blended-learning approach in improving pre- and postregistration health care professionals' knowledge, attitudes, practical skills, and behavior in the management of chronic wounds, as well as their satisfaction with the intervention. Secondary objectives are to evaluate patient-related outcomes, cost-effectiveness of the interventions, and any unfavorable or undesirable outcomes that may arise.
METHODS: This systematic review will follow the methodology as described in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. As our systematic review is one of a series of reviews on digital education for health professionals' education, we will use a previously developed search strategy. This search includes the following databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (Cochrane Library), MEDLINE (Ovid), Embase (Ovid), Web of Science, the Educational Resource Information Centre (ERIC) (Ovid), PsycINFO (Ovid), the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (EBSCO), the ProQuest Dissertation and Theses database, and trial registries. Databases will be searched for studies published from January 1990 to August 2018. Two independent reviewers will screen the library for included studies. We will describe the screening process using a flowchart as per the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. We will extract the data using a previously developed, structured data extraction form. Included studies will be quality-assessed using the Risk of Bias tool from Cochrane. We will narratively summarize the data and, if possible, we will conduct a meta-analysis. We will use Cochrane's RevMan 5.3 software for data analysis.
RESULTS: We have completed the screening of titles and abstracts for this systematic review and are currently selecting papers against our inclusion and exclusion criteria through full-text revision. We are expecting to complete our review by the end of April 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review will provide an in-depth analysis of digital education strategies to train health care providers in the management of chronic wounds. We consider this topic particularly relevant given the current challenges facing health care systems worldwide, including shortages of skilled personnel and a steep increase in the population of older adults as a result of a prolonged life expectancy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42018109971; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=109971.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/12488.
Label Included: 0

Title: Offline Digital Education for Medical Students: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Medical schools in low- and middle-income countries are facing a shortage of staff, limited infrastructure, and restricted access to fast and reliable internet. Offline digital education may be an alternative solution for these issues, allowing medical students to learn at their own time and pace, without the need for a network connection.
OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this systematic review was to assess the effectiveness of offline digital education compared with traditional learning or a different form of offline digital education such as CD-ROM or PowerPoint presentations in improving knowledge, skills, attitudes, and satisfaction of medical students. The secondary objective was to assess the cost-effectiveness of offline digital education, changes in its accessibility or availability, and its unintended/adverse effects on students.
METHODS: We carried out a systematic review of the literature by following the Cochrane methodology. We searched seven major electronic databases from January 1990 to August 2017 for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) or cluster RCTs. Two authors independently screened studies, extracted data, and assessed the risk of bias. We assessed the quality of evidence using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations criteria.
RESULTS: We included 36 studies with 3325 medical students, of which 33 were RCTs and three were cluster RCTs. The interventions consisted of software programs, CD-ROMs, PowerPoint presentations, computer-based videos, and other computer-based interventions. The pooled estimate of 19 studies (1717 participants) showed no significant difference between offline digital education and traditional learning groups in terms of students' postintervention knowledge scores (standardized mean difference=0.11, 95% CI -0.11 to 0.32; small effect size; low-quality evidence). Meta-analysis of four studies found that, compared with traditional learning, offline digital education improved medical students' postintervention skills (standardized mean difference=1.05, 95% CI 0.15-1.95; large effect size; low-quality evidence). We are uncertain about the effects of offline digital education on students' attitudes and satisfaction due to missing or incomplete outcome data. Only four studies estimated the costs of offline digital education, and none reported changes in accessibility or availability of such education or in the adverse effects. The risk of bias was predominantly high in more than half of the included studies. The overall quality of the evidence was low (for knowledge, skills, attitudes, and satisfaction) due to the study limitations and inconsistency across the studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that offline digital education is as effective as traditional learning in terms of medical students' knowledge and may be more effective than traditional learning in terms of medical students' skills. However, there is a need to further investigate students' attitudes and satisfaction with offline digital education as well as its cost-effectiveness, changes in its accessibility or availability, and any resulting unintended/adverse effects.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of a home-based group educational programme on renal replacement therapies: a study protocol.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Living donor kidney transplantation (LDKT) is the optimal treatment for most patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). However, there are numerous patients who cannot find a living kidney donor. Randomised controlled trials have shown that home-based education for patients with ESRD and their family/friends leads to four times more LDKTs. This educational intervention is currently being implemented in eight hospitals in the Netherlands. Supervision and quality assessment are being employed to maintain the quality of the intervention. In this study, we aim to: (1) conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of the educational programme and its quality assurance system; (2) investigate the relationship between the quality of the implementation of the intervention and the outcomes knowledge, communication and LDKT activities; and (3) investigate policy implications.
METHODS AND DESIGN: Patients with ESRD who do not have a living kidney donor are eligible to receive the home-based educational intervention. This is carried out by allied health transplantation professionals and psychologists across eight hospitals in the Netherlands. The cost-effectiveness analysis will be conducted with a Markov model. Cost data will be obtained from the literature. We will obtain the quality of life data from the patients who participate in the educational programme. Questionnaires on knowledge and communication will be used to measure the outcomes of the programme. Data on LDKT activities will be obtained from medical records up to 24 months after the education. A protocol adherence measure will be assessed by a third party by means of a telephone interview with the patients and the invitees.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval was obtained through all participating hospitals. Results will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and scientific presentations. Results of the cost-effectiveness of the educational programme will also be disseminated to the Dutch National Health Care Institute.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NL6529.
Label Included: 0

Title: Electronically delivered interventions to reduce antibiotic prescribing for respiratory infections in primary care: cluster RCT using electronic health records and cohort study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Unnecessary prescribing of antibiotics in primary care is contributing to the emergence of antimicrobial drug resistance.
OBJECTIVES: To develop and evaluate a multicomponent intervention for antimicrobial stewardship in primary care, and to evaluate the safety of reducing antibiotic prescribing for self-limiting respiratory infections (RTIs).
INTERVENTIONS: A multicomponent intervention, developed as part of this study, including a webinar, monthly reports of general practice-specific data for antibiotic prescribing and decision support tools to inform appropriate antibiotic prescribing.
DESIGN: A parallel-group, cluster randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: The trial was conducted in 79 general practices in the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD).
PARTICIPANTS: All registered patients were included.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the rate of antibiotic prescriptions for self-limiting RTIs over the 12-month intervention period.
COHORT STUDY: A separate population-based cohort study was conducted in 610 CPRD general practices that were not exposed to the trial interventions. Data were analysed to evaluate safety outcomes for registered patients with 45.5 million person-years of follow-up from 2005 to 2014.
RESULTS: There were 41 intervention trial arm practices (323,155 patient-years) and 38 control trial arm practices (259,520 patient-years). There were 98.7 antibiotic prescriptions for RTIs per 1000 patient-years in the intervention trial arm (31,907 antibiotic prescriptions) and 107.6 per 1000 patient-years in the control arm (27,923 antibiotic prescriptions) [adjusted antibiotic-prescribing rate ratio (RR) 0.88, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.78 to 0.99; p = 0.040]. There was no evidence of effect in children aged < 15 years (RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.82 to 1.12) or adults aged ≥ 85 years (RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.18). Antibiotic prescribing was reduced in adults aged between 15 and 84 years (RR 0.84, 95% CI 0.75 to 0.95), that is, one antibiotic prescription was avoided for every 62 patients (95% CI 40 to 200 patients) aged 15-84 years per year. Analysis of trial data for 12 safety outcomes, including pneumonia and peritonsillar abscess, showed no evidence that these outcomes might be increased as a result of the intervention. The analysis of data from non-trial practices showed that if a general practice with an average list size of 7000 patients reduces the proportion of RTI consultations with antibiotics prescribed by 10%, then 1.1 (95% CI 0.6 to 1.5) more cases of pneumonia per year and 0.9 (95% CI 0.5 to 1.3) more cases of peritonsillar abscesses per decade may be observed. There was no evidence that mastoiditis, empyema, meningitis, intracranial abscess or Lemierre syndrome were more frequent at low-prescribing practices.
LIMITATIONS: The research was based on electronic health records that may not always provide complete data. The number of practices included in the trial was smaller than initially intended.
CONCLUSIONS: This study found evidence that, overall, general practice antibiotic prescribing for RTIs was reduced by this electronically delivered intervention. Antibiotic prescribing rates were reduced for adults aged 15-84 years, but not for children or the senior elderly.
FUTURE WORK: Strategies for antimicrobial stewardship should employ stratified interventions that are tailored to specific age groups. Further research into the safety of reduced antibiotic prescribing is also needed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN95232781.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 23, No. 11. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Deciding on Appropriate Telemetric Intracranial Pressure Monitoring System.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The clinical advantage of telemetric intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring has previously been limited by issues with inaccuracy and zero-drift. Today, 2 comparable telemetric ICP monitoring systems are available performing adequately in these parameters. The objective of this study is to identify appropriate uses of each system.
METHODS: The 2 telemetric ICP monitoring systems from Raumedic (implant: Neurovent-P-tel) and Miethke (implant: Sensor Reservoir) are compared in terms of fundamental differences, sensor survival, monitoring possibilities, complications, and cost/benefit. Two illustrative cases are presented highlighting clinical advantages and disadvantages of each system.
RESULTS: Both systems provide transdermal (telemetric) ICP measurements through external application of a reader unit cabled to a portable data sampler. Thereby, they allow several ICP monitoring sessions without multiple surgical insertions of a cabled ICP sensor. The Miethke implant has a high sampling frequency (40 Hz) and a long CE (Conformité Européenne) approval (3 years) but cannot be used for long-duration monitoring sessions. In comparison, the Raumedic implant has a lower sampling frequency (5 Hz) and shorter CE approval (90 days) but can be used for long-duration monitoring sessions. The standard 3-year cost for a patient with a Neurovent-P-tel is 17,380 €, and for the Sensor Reservoir it is 15,790 €.
CONCLUSIONS: The Miethke system is useful in outpatient clinics where patients have sequential point measurements of ICP performed, whereas the Raumedic system is ideal for long-duration ICP monitoring outside the hospital. When choosing between the 2 systems, it must primarily be decided if the clinical situation requires long-duration monitoring sessions or continuous repeated ambulatory follow-up sessions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost effectiveness of text messages to reduce methamphetamine use and HIV sexual risk behaviors among men who have sex with men.
Abstract: Methamphetamine use is highly prevalent among gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men (MSM) in the United States and has been associated with condomless anal intercourse (CAI), a common route of HIV infection. Text messaging is a very low-cost method of delivery for intervention content. This paper presents a cost-effectiveness analysis of a randomized controlled trial testing three nested methods of text message delivery designed to reduce methamphetamine use and HIV sexual risk behaviors among MSM (Project Tech Support2). From March 2014 to January 2016, 286 non-treatment seeking methamphetamine-using MSM were randomized into one of three study arms: 1) Interactive text message conversations with Peer Health Educators, plus five daily automated, unidirectional theory-based messages, plus a weekly self-monitoring text message assessment (TXT-PHE; n = 94); or, 2) Five daily automated, unidirectional theory-based messages plus a weekly self-monitoring text message assessment (TXT-Auto; n = 99); or, 3) The weekly self-monitoring text message assessment only (AO; n = 93). Methamphetamine use at nine months post-enrollment was lower than at baseline in all three arms. The addition of Peer Health Educators and/or theory-based text messages did not produce cost-effective reductions in methamphetamine use over the weekly AO text messages. However, both intervention arms outperformed the AO arm in reducing HIV risk behaviors, but the TXT-Auto arm dominated the TXT-PHE arm in achieving greater reductions in days of methamphetamine use and CAI at lower cost. The TXT-Auto arm achieved greater reductions in CAI than the attentional control at a cost in the base case of ~$37.50 per episode of CAI reduced per month. Sensitivity analyses showed that results were robust to a number of changes in assumptions. Interventions seeking to reduce methamphetamine use among non-treatment-seeking MSM may seek to add minimal attentional control-style text messages to their routines querying about recent methamphetamine use and/or high-risk sex. Interventions seeking to additionally reduce HIV sexual risk behaviors among non-treatment-seeking MSM, specifically engagement in CAI, may seek to additionally apply theory-based text messages.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telephone-based aftercare groups for family carers of people with dementia: study protocol of the Talking Time - REHAB project.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: More than one million people in Germany live with dementia. Most of these people are cared for at home in the family setting. Supporting and caring for people with dementia is time-consuming, and family carers often have high stress levels and are at an increased risk of becoming physically and mentally ill. Medical rehabilitation (rehab) helps to relieve family carers and provide them with strategies to cope with stress. The aim of this study is to improve the sustainability of a multimodal rehab program for family carers of people with dementia.
RESEARCH QUESTION: can the effects of this rehab be maintained through telephone-based aftercare groups following the rehab program?
METHODS: A prospective randomized controlled longitudinal trial is performed. The intervention group (IG) participates in telephone-based aftercare groups; the control group (CG) receives treatment as usual. For evaluation, a mixed-methods approach is used. The effects of the intervention are quantitatively evaluated by written questionnaires at four measuring points (pre- and post-rehab, as well as 6 and 12 months after the end of rehab).
PRIMARY OUTCOME: participation (IMET).
SECONDARY OUTCOMES: Depressive Mood State CES-D, General Complaints SCL-90-R, Subjective Quality of Life WHOQUOL-BREF, Social Support F-SozU, performance in different areas of life, single scales, and support offers (single items). The intervention process is evaluated through qualitative interviews and focus groups with regard to the acceptance of and satisfaction with the aftercare offered; in addition, a health economic evaluation is performed using the EQ-5D questionnaire. Rehabilitants are included in the study (N = 103 each in the IG and CG) who, accompanied by their family members with dementia, participate in the rehab measure in Ratzeburg. The IG participates monthly in 6 telephone aftercare groups over a period of 6 months. Typical stress situations are discussed and worked on.
DISCUSSION: Upon successful evaluation, the offer to participate in telephone-based aftercare groups can be firmly established in the participating rehab clinic. Through minor adjustments, the offer would also be suitable for carers of physically ill people and for non-nursing-specific rehabilitation indications.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register: DRKS00013736 , May 14, 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Human Biospecimens Come from People.
Abstract: Contrary to the revised Common Rule, and contrary to the views of many bioethicists and researchers, we argue that broad consent should be sought for anticipated later research uses of deidentified biospecimens and health information collected during medical care. Individuals differ in the kinds of risk they find concerning and in their willingness to permit use of their biospecimens for future research. For this reason, asking their permission for unspecified research uses is a fundamental expression of respect for them as persons and should be done absent some compelling moral consideration to the contrary. We examine three moral considerations and argue that each of them fails: that there is a duty of easy rescue binding on all, that seeking consent creates a selection bias that undermines the validity of biospecimen research, and that seeking and documenting consent will be prohibitively expensive.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of implementing a telegeriatrics ecosystem with nursing homes: panel data analysis.
Abstract: Our study analyzed the economicimpact of a telegeriatrics programme on care of nursing homeresidents, from the healthcare system provider's perspective. Thisis a retrospective, archival data analysis of multiple data sourcesin 4 nursing homes of Singapore from 2010 to 2015. Individualsadmitted to nursing homes and have undergone telemedicineconsultations (N=859) from 2010 to 2015 were recruited. Weconducted a cost analysis of the programme by reviewing pasthospital admissions' and specialist outpatient clinic (SOC) visits'billing records, nurse training records, and key performanceindicators' reports. A significant relationship was observed betweenteleconsultations and SOC visit cost (β1 = -83.366, p-value<0.01) and between teleconsultations and inpatient cost (β1 =-470.971, p-value <0.05). Remote video consultations could reduceunnecessary SOC visits and hospital admissions, and thereforelead to cost savings. Training of nursing home nurses couldtranslate to cost savings as a result of decreased ED transfers.
Label Included: 0

Title: The cost effectiveness of REACH-HF and home-based cardiac rehabilitation compared with the usual medical care for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction: A decision model-based analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The REACH-HF (Rehabilitation EnAblement in CHronic Heart Failure) trial found that the REACH-HF home-based cardiac rehabilitation intervention resulted in a clinically meaningful improvement in disease-specific health-related quality of life in patients with reduced ejection fraction heart failure (HFrEF). The aims of this study were to assess the long-term cost-effectiveness of the addition of REACH-HF intervention or home-based cardiac rehabilitation to usual care compared with usual care alone in patients with HFrEF.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A Markov model was developed using a patient lifetime horizon and integrating evidence from the REACH-HF trial, a systematic review/meta-analysis of randomised trials, estimates of mortality and hospital admission and UK costs at 2015/2016 prices. Taking a UK National Health and Personal Social Services perspective we report the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, assessing uncertainty using probabilistic and deterministic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In base case analysis, the REACH-HF intervention was associated with per patient mean QALY gain of 0.23 and an increased mean cost of £400 compared with usual care, resulting in a cost per QALY gained of £1720. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated a 78% probability that REACH-HF is cost effective versus usual care at a threshold of £20,000 per QALY gained. Results were similar for home-based cardiac rehabilitation versus usual care. Sensitivity analyses indicate the findings to be robust to changes in model assumptions and parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Our cost-utility analyses indicate that the addition of the REACH-HF intervention and home-based cardiac rehabilitation programmes are likely to be cost-effective treatment options versus usual care alone in patients with HFrEF.
Label Included: 0

Title: Developing the role of electronic health records in economic evaluation.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Health Care Utilization and Costs of Veterans Evaluated for Traumatic Brain Injury Through Telehealth.
Abstract: Background: Mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) is prevalent among Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom [OEF]) and Iraq (Operation Iraqi Freedom [OIF]) Veterans. With clinical video telehealth (CVT), Veterans screening positive for potential deployment-related TBI can receive comprehensive TBI evaluations by providers at specialized centers through interactive video communication.Introduction: We examined health care utilization and costs for Veterans during the 12 months before and after being evaluated through CVT versus in-person.Materials and Methods: We examined OEF/OIF Veterans receiving comprehensive evaluations at specialized Veterans Affairs facilities from October 2012 to September 2014. Veterans evaluated through CVT and in-person at the same facilities were included. We used a difference-in-difference analysis with propensity score weighted regression models to examine health care utilization and costs between TBI evaluation groups.Results: There were 554 Veterans with comprehensive evaluations through CVT (380 with and 174 without confirmed TBI) and 7,159 with in-person evaluations (4,899 with and 2,260 without confirmed TBI). Veterans in the in-person group with confirmed TBI had similar increases in outpatient, inpatient, and total health care costs as Veterans who had TBI confirmed through CVT. However, Veterans with a confirmed TBI evaluated in-person had greater increases in rehabilitation and other specialty costs.Discussion: When visits are in-person, Veterans may have opportunities to discuss more issues and concerns, whether TBI-related or not. Thus, providers might make more referrals to rehabilitation and specialty care after in-person visits.Conclusion: Veterans receiving in-person evaluations who were diagnosed with TBI had similar increases in health care costs as Veterans with TBI confirmed through evaluations through CVT.
Label Included: 0

Title: One-year costs of medical admissions with and without a 30-day readmission and enhanced risk adjustment.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: To overcome the limitations of administrative data in adequately adjusting for differences in patients' risk of readmissions, recent studies have added supplemental data from patient surveys and other sources (e.g., electronic health records). However, judging the adequacy of enhanced risk adjustment for use in assessment of 30-day readmission as a hospital quality indicator is not straightforward. In this paper, we evaluate the adequacy of risk adjustment by comparing the one-year costs of those readmitted within 30 days to those not after excluding the costs of the readmission.
METHODS: In this two-step study, we first used comprehensive administrative and survey data on a nationally representative Medicare cohort of hospitalized patients to compare patients with a medical admission who experienced a 30-day readmission to patients without a readmission in terms of their overall Medicare payments during 12 months following the index discharge. We then examined the extent to which a series of enhanced risk adjustment models incorporating code-based comorbidities, self-reported health status and prior healthcare utilization, reduced the payment differences between the admitted and not readmitted groups.
RESULTS: Our analytic cohort consisted 4684 index medical hospitalization of which 842 met the 30-day readmission criteria. Those readmitted were more likely to be older, White, sicker and with higher healthcare utilization in the previous year. The unadjusted subsequent one-year Medicare spending among those readmitted ($56,856) was 60% higher than that among the non-readmitted ($35,465). Even with enhanced risk adjustment, and across a variety of sensitivity analyses, one-year Medicare spending remained substantially higher (46.6%, p < 0.01) among readmitted patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Enhanced risk adjustment models combining health status indicators from administrative and survey data with previous healthcare utilization are unable to substantially reduce the cost differences between those medical admission patients readmitted within 30 days and those not. The unmeasured patient severity that these cost differences most likely reflect raises the question of the fairness of programs that place large penalties on hospitals with higher than expected readmission rates.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of a Technology-Enhanced Diabetes Care Management Program in Mexico.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The prevalence of diabetes has increased substantially in Mexico over the last 40 years, leading to significant impacts on population health and the healthcare system. Technology-based solutions may improve diabetes outcomes in areas where lack of efficient transportation creates barriers to care.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the lifetime cost-effectiveness of a technology-based diabetes care management program from the perspective of the Mexican healthcare system.
METHODS: Clinical outcomes and cost data from a 3-arm randomized clinical trial of Dulce Wireless Tijuana, a diabetes care management program incorporating short-term mobile technology, were used as inputs in a validated simulation model for type 2 diabetes. Study arms included a control group (CG), Project Dulce diabetes care management (PD), and Project Dulce with technology enhancement (PD-TE).
RESULTS: Intervention costs were $1448 for PD and $1740 for PD-TE compared with $740 for CG. Both intervention arms increased quality-adjusted life-years and costs. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for PD was $1635 and for PD-TE was $2220, both compared with CG. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for PD-TE versus PD was $4299. The results were sensitive to the time horizon. The PE and PD-TE interventions were cost-effective under time horizons of 15 to 20 years, but were not cost-effective under time horizons of 5 to 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the PD and PD-TE were highly cost-effective from a Mexican health system perspective. Considering the economic impact of the diabetes epidemic and the widespread use of cellular technology in Mexico, implementation of PD-TE is warranted.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using pharmacy technicians and telepharmacy to obtain medication histories in the emergency department.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To determine if telepharmacy can be used to collect medication histories on patients admitted in the emergency department (ED) in a large health system.
PRACTICE DESCRIPTION: As part of an effort to address safety concerns, resource limitations, and a decline in medication history completions, a program was developed to use telepharmacy to conduct medication histories on patients admitted in the ED.
SETTING: The medication history program covers 5 large facilities. It is staffed by 6 full-time pharmacy technicians 7 days a week and is overseen by a pharmacist.
INNOVATION: Medication histories are conducted with the use of mobile carts enhanced with videoconferencing equipment allowing technicians to operate from a remote central location. The program allows the technicians to observe multiple EDs at one time, interview patients through videoconferencing, and document completed medication histories in the electronic medical record (EMR). The technicians also transcribe preoperation (pre-op) medication lists for patients being admitted for surgeries.
EVALUATION: Medication history completion rates and barriers were assessed. In addition, potential medication errors, medication history accuracy rates for nursing and pharmacy technicians, and a cost analysis of preventable ADEs were explored.
RESULTS: The program, on average, conducts medication histories on 56% to 79% of patients admitted through the ED during hours of operation. In fiscal year 2018, the technicians entered 24,980 medication histories and pre-op lists. A cross-sectional analysis of data collected from December 2016 to March 2017, including 124 patients, revealed 320 potential medication errors among a total of 382 high-risk medications.
CONCLUSION: Based on the current performance and continued expansion of this novel strategy, use of telepharmacy to obtain medication histories in the ED has led to resource optimization for the remote delivery of a pharmacy service.
Label Included: 0

Title: Risk of 30-Day Hospital Readmission Among Patients Discharged to Skilled Nursing Facilities: Development and Validation of a Risk-Prediction Model.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Patients discharged to a skilled nursing facility (SNF) for post-acute care have a high risk of hospital readmission. We aimed to develop and validate a risk-prediction model to prospectively quantify the risk of 30-day hospital readmission at the time of discharge to a SNF.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Ten independent SNFs affiliated with the post-acute care practice of an integrated health care delivery system.
PARTICIPANTS: We evaluated 6032 patients who were discharged to SNFs for post-acute care after hospitalization.
MEASUREMENTS: The primary outcome was all-cause 30-day hospital readmission. Patient demographics, medical comorbidity, prior use of health care, and clinical parameters during the index hospitalization were analyzed by using gradient boosting machine multivariable analysis to build a predictive model for 30-day hospital readmission. Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was assessed on out-of-sample observations under 10-fold cross-validation.
RESULTS: Among 8616 discharges to SNFs from January 1, 2009, through June 30, 2014, a total of 1568 (18.2%) were readmitted to the hospital within 30 days. The 30-day hospital readmission prediction model had an AUC of 0.69, a 16% improvement over risk assessment using the Charlson Comorbidity Index alone. The final model included length of stay, abnormal laboratory parameters, and need for intensive care during the index hospitalization; comorbid status; and number of emergency department and hospital visits within the preceding 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: We developed and validated a risk-prediction model for 30-day hospital readmission in patients discharged to a SNF for post-acute care. This prediction tool can be used to risk stratify the complex population of hospitalized patients who are discharged to SNFs to prioritize interventions and potentially improve the quality, safety, and cost-effectiveness of care.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Limited Utility of Routine Culture in Pediatric Pilonidal, Gluteal, and Perianal Abscesses.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pilonidal, buttock, and perianal abscesses are common reasons for surgical consultation in the pediatric emergency department. Treatment typically includes a bedside incision and drainage, often followed by an abscess culture, and a course of oral antibiotics. We aimed to study the impact of culture data on changes in management and clinical outcomes. We hypothesized that management is unaffected by culture data, and therefore, fluid culture from pilonidal, buttock, and perianal abscesses in the pediatric population may represent an unnecessary laboratory test and cost.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A single institution's electronic medical record was searched between February 1, 2013 and August 1, 2017, identifying 249 pediatric patients meeting the inclusion criteria: age 0 to 18 y; diagnosis of pilonidal, buttock, or perianal abscess; bedside incision and drainage. Patients were divided into two different comparison groups for data analysis based on the presence or absence of culture and recurrence or no recurrence.
RESULTS: Culture results directly altered management in only 5 patient encounters (2.7% of all cultured). When comparing groups by culture or no culture, no statistically significant difference in recurrence rate (P = 0.4) was noted. When comparing groups by recurrence versus no recurrence, we found no statistically significant difference between sex, resident type, vessel loop use, packing use, or antibiotic use (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that microbiological culture results are of limited utility in the management of pediatric pilonidal, buttock, and perianal abscesses as they do not appear to alter treatment, and omission of culture is not associated with failure of surgical management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementing a Scientifically Valid, Cost-Effective, and Scalable Data Collection System at Point of Care: The Cleveland Clinic OME Cohort.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Improving outcomes after surgical procedures and determining the value of health care can be facilitated by a scientifically valid, cost-effective, and scalable data outcome collection system. We hypothesized that such a system could be constructed in orthopaedic surgery to (1) capture >95% of baseline validated patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) for patients undergoing elective surgery, (2) capture >95% of surgeon-entered data on disease severity and treatment, and (3) be implemented as standard clinical care in daily practice.
METHODS: A modified Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) system was developed and was implemented at the time of surgery in a prospective cohort to collect demographic data, general health PROMs, joint-specific PROMs, and disease severity and treatments from patients and surgeons. All elective knee, hip, and shoulder orthopaedic surgical procedures performed in the Cleveland Clinic system at 7 hospitals were included.
RESULTS: Of 16,021 consecutive eligible patients (February 18, 2015, to July 31, 2017), 2% (320) were excluded because of language or physical barriers, and 0.6% (91) of the remaining 15,701 patients refused to participate. Of the remaining 15,610 patients, 97.4% (15,202) completed PROMs, and surgeons provided details on the disease severity and treatment for 99.9% (15,592) of the 15,610 patients. Overall, 97.3% (15,185) of the 15,610 patients had complete patient-reported and surgeon-reported baseline enrollment. The median completion time was 11.5 minutes for the patients and 1.6 minutes for the surgeons. The overall complete 1-year follow-up rate was 72.5% (9,354 of 12,896).
CONCLUSIONS: A data collection system with validated measures with >97% baseline completion of PROMs and surgeon forms regarding disease severity and treatments, across elective knee, hip, and shoulder orthopaedic surgical procedures, was successfully implemented at 7 hospitals. The system is potentially scalable to the entire orthopaedic community and could serve as a template for all procedural-based specialties during routine patient care.
Label Included: 0

Title: SOBRINA Spanish study-analysing the frequency, cost and adverse events associated with overuse in primary care: protocol for a retrospective cohort study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Several institutions and quality national agencies have fostered the creation of recommendations on what not to do to reduce overuse in clinical practice. In primary care, their impact has hardly been studied. The frequency of adverse events (AEs) associated with doing what must not be done has not been analysed, either. The aim of this study is to measure the frequency of overuse and AEs associated with doing what must not be done (commission errors) in primary care and their cost.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A coordinated, multicentric, national project. A retrospective cohort study using computerised databases of primary care medical records from national agencies and regional health services will be conducted to analyse the frequency of the overuse due to ignore the do-not-do recommendations, and immediately afterwards, depending on their frequency, a representative random sample of medical records will be reviewed with algorithms (triggers) that determine the frequency of AEs associated with these recommendations. Cost will determine by summation of the direct costs due to the consultation, pharmacy, laboratory and imaging activities according to the cases.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study protocol has been approved by the Ethics Committee of Primary Care Research of the Valencian Community. We aim to disseminate the findings through international peer-reviewed journals and on the website (http://www.nohacer.es/). Outcomes will be used to incorporate algorithms into the electronic history to assist in making clinical decisions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03482232; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital Education for Health Professions on Smoking Cessation Management: Systematic Review by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tobacco smoking, one of the leading causes of preventable death and disease, is associated with 7 million deaths every year. This is estimated to rise to more than 8 million deaths per year by 2030, with 80% occurring in low- and middle-income countries. Digital education, teaching, and learning using digital technologies have the potential to increase educational opportunities, supplement teaching activities, and decrease distance barriers in health professions education.
OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this systematic review was to evaluate the effectiveness of digital education compared with various controls in improving learners' knowledge, skills, attitudes, and satisfaction to deliver smoking cessation therapy. The secondary objectives were to assess patient-related outcomes, change in health professionals' practice or behavior, self-efficacy or self-rated competence of health professionals in delivering smoking cessation therapy, and cost-effectiveness of the interventions.
METHODS: We searched 7 electronic databases and 2 trial registers for randomized controlled trials published between January 1990 and August 2017. We used gold standard Cochrane methods to select and extract data and appraise eligible studies.
RESULTS: A total of 11 studies (number of participants, n=2684) were included in the review. All studies found that digital education was at least as effective as traditional or usual learning. There was some suggestion that blended education results in similar or greater improvements in knowledge (standardized mean difference, SMD=0.19, 95% CI -0.35 to 0.72), skill (SMD=0.58, 95% CI 0.08-1.08), and satisfaction (SMD=0.62, 95% CI 0.12-1.12) compared with digital education or usual learning alone. There was also some evidence for improved attitude (SMD=0.45, 95% CI 0.18-0.72) following digital education compared with usual learning. Only 1 study reported patient outcomes and the setup cost of blended education but did not compare outcomes among groups. There were insufficient data to investigate what components of the digital education interventions were associated with the greatest improvements in learning outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence suggests that digital education is at least as effective as usual learning in improving health professionals' knowledge and skill for delivering smoking cessation therapy. However, limitations in the evidence base mean that these conclusions should be interpreted with some caution.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42016046815; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=46815.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digitally supported program for type 2 diabetes risk identification and risk reduction in real-world setting: protocol for the StopDia model and randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The StopDia study is based on the convincing scientific evidence that type 2 diabetes (T2D) and its comorbidities can be prevented by a healthy lifestyle. The need for additional research is based on the fact that the attempts to translate scientific evidence into actions in the real-world health care have not led to permanent and cost-effective models to prevent T2D. The specific aims of the StopDia study following the Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance (RE-AIM) framework are to 1) improve the Reach of individuals at increased risk, 2) evaluate the Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the digital lifestyle intervention and the digital and face-to-face group lifestyle intervention in comparison to routine care in a randomized controlled trial (RCT), and 3) evaluate the Adoption and Implementation of the StopDia model by the participants and the health care organizations at society level. Finally, we will address the Maintenance of the lifestyle changes at participant level and that of the program at organisatory level after the RCT.
METHODS: The StopDia study is carried out in the primary health care system as part of the routine actions of three provinces in Finland, including Northern Savo, Southern Carelia, and Päijät-Häme. We estimate that one fifth of adults aged 18-70 years living in these areas are at increased risk of T2D. We recruit the participants using the StopDia Digital Screening Tool, including questions from the Finnish Diabetes Risk Score (FINDRISC). About 3000 individuals at increased risk of T2D (FINDRISC ≥12 or a history of gestational diabetes, impaired fasting glucose, or impaired glucose tolerance) participate in the one-year randomized controlled trial. We monitor lifestyle factors using the StopDia Digital Questionnaire and metabolism using laboratory tests performed as part of routine actions in the health care system.
DISCUSSION: Sustainable and scalable models are needed to reach and identify individuals at increased risk of T2D and to deliver personalized and effective lifestyle interventions. With the StopDia study we aim to answer these challenges in a scientific project that is fully digitally integrated into the routine health care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTials.gov . Identifier: NCT03156478 . Date of registration 17.5.2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: Medical Doctors' Offline Computer-Assisted Digital Education: Systematic Review by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The widening gap between innovations in the medical field and the dissemination of such information to doctors may affect the quality of care. Offline computer-based digital education (OCDE) may be a potential solution to overcoming the geographical, financial, and temporal obstacles faced by doctors.
OBJECTIVE: The objectives of this systematic review were to evaluate the effectiveness of OCDE compared with face-to-face learning, no intervention, or other types of digital learning for improving medical doctors' knowledge, cognitive skills, and patient-related outcomes. Secondary objectives were to assess the cost-effectiveness (CE) of OCDE and any adverse effects.
METHODS: We searched major bibliographic databases from 1990 to August 2017 to identify relevant articles and followed the Cochrane methodology for systematic reviews of intervention.
RESULTS: Overall, 27 randomized controlled trials (RCTs), 1 cluster RCT (cRCT), and 1 quasi-RCT were included in this review. The total number of participants was 1690 in addition to the cRCT, which included 24 practices. Due to the heterogeneity of the participants, interventions, and outcomes, meta-analysis was not feasible, and the results were presented as narrative summary. Compared with face-to-face learning, the effect of OCDE on knowledge gain is uncertain (ratio of the means [RM] range 0.95-1.17; 8 studies, 495 participants; very low grade of evidence). From the same comparison, the effect of OCDE on cognitive skill gain is uncertain (RM range 0.1-0.9; 8 studies, 375 participants; very low grade of evidence). OCDE may have little or no effect on patients' outcome compared with face-to-face education (2 studies, 62 participants; low grade of evidence). Compared with no intervention, OCDE may improve knowledge gain (RM range 1.36-0.98; 4 studies, 401 participants; low grade of evidence). From the same comparison, the effect of OCDE on cognitive skill gain is uncertain (RM range 1.1-1.15; 4 trials, 495 participants; very low grade of evidence). One cRCT, involving 24 practices, investigated patients' outcome in this comparison and showed no difference between the 2 groups with low-grade evidence. Compared with text-based learning, the effect of OCDE on cognitive skills gain is uncertain (RM range 0.91-1.46; 3 trials with 4 interventions; 68 participants; very low-grade evidence). No study in this comparison investigated knowledge gain or patients' outcomes. One study assessed the CE and showed that OCDE was cost-effective when compared with face-to-face learning if the cost is less than or equal to Can $200. No trial evaluated the adverse effect of OCDE.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of OCDE compared with other methods of education on medical doctors' knowledge and cognitive skill gain is uncertain. OCDE may improve doctors' knowledge compared with no intervention but its effect on doctors' cognitive skills is uncertain. OCDE may have little or no effect in improving patients' outcome.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telepsychiatry and other technologies for integrated care: evidence base, best practice models and competencies.
Abstract: Telehealth facilitates integrated, patient-centred care. Synchronous video, telepsychiatry (TP), or telebehavioural health provide outcomes as good as in-person care. It also improves access to care, leverages expertise at a distance, and is effective for education and consultation to primary care. Other technologies on an e-behavioural health spectrum are also useful, like telephone, e-mail, text, and e-consults. This paper briefly organizes these technologies into low, mid and high intensity telehealth models and reviews the evidence base for interventions to primary care, and, specifically, for TP and integrated care (IC). Technology, mobile health, and IC competencies facilitate quality care. TP is a high intensity model and it is the best-studied option. Studies of IC are preliminary, but those with collaborative and consultative care show effectiveness. Low- and mid-intensity technology options like telephone, e-mail, text, and e-consults, may provide better access for patients and more timely provider communication and education. They are also probably more cost-effective and versatile for health system workflow. Research is needed upon all technology models related to IC for adult and paediatric primary care populations. Effective healthcare delivery matches the patients' needs with the model, emphasizes clinician competencies, standardizes interventions, and evaluates outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in the ICU: clinical outcomes, economic aspects, and trainee education.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The evidence base for telemedicine in the ICU (tele-ICU) is rapidly expanding. The last 2 years have seen important additions to our understanding of when, where, and how telemedicine in the ICU adds value.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent publications and a recent meta-analysis confirm that tele-ICU improves core clinical outcomes for ICU patients. Recent evidence further demonstrates that comprehensive tele-ICU programs have the potential to quickly recuperate their implementation and operational costs and significantly increase case volumes and direct contribution margins particularly if additional logistics and care standardization functions are embedded to optimize ICU bed utilization and reduce complications. Even though the adoption of tele-ICU is increasing and the vast majority of today's medical graduates will regularly use some form of telemedicine and/or tele-ICU, telemedicine modules have not consistently found their way into educational curricula yet. Tele-ICU can be used very effectively to standardize supervision of medical trainees in bedside procedures or point-of-care ultrasound exams, especially during off-hours. Lastly, tele-ICUs routinely generate rich operational data, as well as risk-adjusted acuity and outcome data across the spectrum of critically ill patients, which can be utilized to support important clinical research and quality improvement projects.
SUMMARY: The value of tele-ICU to improve patient outcomes, optimize ICU bed utilization, increase financial performance and enhance educational opportunities for the next generation of providers has become more evident and differentiated in the last 2 years.
Label Included: 0

Title: Emergency Medicine Palliative Care Access (EMPallA): protocol for a multicentre randomised controlled trial comparing the effectiveness of specialty outpatient versus nurse-led telephonic palliative care of older adults with advanced illness.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Emergency department (ED)-initiated palliative care has been shown to improve patient-centred outcomes in older adults with serious, life-limiting illnesses. However, the optimal modality for providing such interventions is unknown. This study aims to compare nurse-led telephonic case management to specialty outpatient palliative care for older adults with serious, life-limiting illness on: (1) quality of life in patients; (2) healthcare utilisation; (3) loneliness and symptom burden and (4) caregiver strain, caregiver quality of life and bereavement.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a protocol for a pragmatic, multicentre, parallel, two-arm randomised controlled trial in ED patients comparing two established models of palliative care: nurse-led telephonic case management and specialty, outpatient palliative care. We will enrol 1350 patients aged 50+ years and 675 of their caregivers across nine EDs. Eligible patients: (1) have advanced cancer (metastatic solid tumour) or end-stage organ failure (New York Heart Association class III or IV heart failure, end-stage renal disease with glomerular filtration rate <15 mL/min/m2, or global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease stage III, IV or oxygen-dependent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease); (2) speak English; (3) are scheduled for ED discharge or observation status; (4) reside locally; (5) have a working telephone and (6) are insured. Patients will be excluded if they: (1) have dementia; (2) have received hospice care or two or more palliative care visits in the last 6 months or (3) reside in a long-term care facility. We will use patient-level block randomisation, stratified by ED site and disease. Effectiveness will be compared by measuring the impact of each intervention on the specified outcomes. The primary outcome will measure change in patient quality of life.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Institutional Review Board approval was obtained at all study sites. Trial results will be submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03325985; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: TeleHospice: A Community-Engaged Model for Utilizing Mobile Tablets to Enhance Rural Hospice Care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In rural communities, providing hospice care can be a challenge. Hospice personnel sometimes travel great distances to reach patients, resulting in difficulty maintaining access, quality, cost-effectiveness, and safety. In 1998, the University of Kansas Medical Center piloted the country's first TeleHospice (TH) service. At that time, challenges with broad adoption due to cost and attitudes regarding technology were noted. A second TH project was launched in early 2017 using newer technology; this article updates that ongoing implementation.
METHODS: The Organizational Change Manager was followed for the guided selection of the hospice partner. The University of Kansas Medical Center partnered with Hospice Services, Inc. (HSI), a leader in rural hospice care, providing services to 16 Kansas counties. Along with mobile tablets, a secure cloud-based videoconferencing solution was chosen for ease of use.
RESULTS: From August 2017 through January 2018, 218 TH videoconferencing encounters including 917 attendees occurred. Calls were made for direct patient care, family support, and administrative purposes. These TH calls have been shown to save HSI money, and initial reports suggest they may strengthen the communication and relationships between staff, patients, and the patient's family.
CONCLUSION: Finding innovative, cost-effective, and community-driven approaches such as TH are needed to continually advance hospice care. TeleHospice's potential to supplement and improve hospice services while reducing costs is significant, but continued research is needed to understand best fit within frontier hospices, to inform future urban applications, and to address reimbursement.
Label Included: 0

Title: Online Digital Education for Postregistration Training of Medical Doctors: Systematic Review by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Globally, online and local area network-based (LAN) digital education (ODE) has grown in popularity. Blended learning is used by ODE along with traditional learning. Studies have shown the increasing potential of these technologies in training medical doctors; however, the evidence for its effectiveness and cost-effectiveness is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: This systematic review evaluated the effectiveness of online and LAN-based ODE in improving practicing medical doctors' knowledge, skills, attitude, satisfaction (primary outcomes), practice or behavior change, patient outcomes, and cost-effectiveness (secondary outcomes).
METHODS: We searched seven electronic databased for randomized controlled trials, cluster-randomized trials, and quasi-randomized trials from January 1990 to March 2017. Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed the risk of bias. We have presented the findings narratively. We mainly compared ODE with self-directed/face-to-face learning and blended learning with self-directed/face-to-face learning.
RESULTS: A total of 93 studies (N=16,895) were included, of which 76 compared ODE (including blended) and self-directed/face-to-face learning. Overall, the effect of ODE (including blended) on postintervention knowledge, skills, attitude, satisfaction, practice or behavior change, and patient outcomes was inconsistent and ranged mostly from no difference between the groups to higher postintervention score in the intervention group (small to large effect size, very low to low quality evidence). Twenty-one studies reported higher knowledge scores (small to large effect size and very low quality) for the intervention, while 20 studies reported no difference in knowledge between the groups. Seven studies reported higher skill score in the intervention (large effect size and low quality), while 13 studies reported no difference in the skill scores between the groups. One study reported a higher attitude score for the intervention (very low quality), while four studies reported no difference in the attitude score between the groups. Four studies reported higher postintervention physician satisfaction with the intervention (large effect size and low quality), while six studies reported no difference in satisfaction between the groups. Eight studies reported higher postintervention practice or behavior change for the ODE group (small to moderate effect size and low quality), while five studies reported no difference in practice or behavior change between the groups. One study reported higher improvement in patient outcome, while three others reported no difference in patient outcome between the groups. None of the included studies reported any unintended/adverse effects or cost-effectiveness of the interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: Empiric evidence showed that ODE and blended learning may be equivalent to self-directed/face-to-face learning for training practicing physicians. Few other studies demonstrated that ODE and blended learning may significantly improve learning outcomes compared to self-directed/face-to-face learning. The quality of the evidence in these studies was found to be very low for knowledge. Further high-quality randomized controlled trials are required to confirm these findings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparative aspects of the care of familial hypercholesterolemia in the "Ten Countries Study".
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is a lack of information on the health care of familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to compare the health care of FH in countries of the Asia-Pacific region and Southern Hemisphere.
METHODS: A series of questionnaires were completed by key opinion leaders from selected specialist centers in 12 countries concerning aspects of the care of FH, including screening, diagnosis, risk assessment, treatment, teaching/training, and research; the United Kingdom (UK) was used as the international benchmark.
RESULTS: The estimated percentage of patients diagnosed with the condition was low (overall <3%) in all countries, compared with ∼15% in the UK. Underdetection of FH was associated with government expenditure on health care (ϰ = 0.667, P < .05). Opportunistic and systematic screening methods, and the Dutch Lipid Clinic Network criteria were most commonly used to detect FH; genetic testing was infrequently used. Noninvasive imaging of coronary calcium and/or carotid plaques was underutilized in risk assessment. Patients with FH were generally not adequately treated, with <30% of patients achieving guideline recommended low-density lipoprotein cholesterol targets on conventional therapies. Treatment gaps included suboptimal availability and use of lipoprotein apheresis and proprotein convertase subtilsin-kexin type 9 inhibitors. A deficit of FH registries, training programs, and publications were identified in less economically developed countries. The demonstration of cost-effectiveness for cascade screening, genetic testing, and specialized treatments were significantly associated with the availability of subsidies from the health care system (ϰ = 0.571-0.800, P < .05).
CONCLUSION: We identified important gaps across the continuum of care for FH, particularly in less economically developed countries. Wider implementation of primary and pediatric care, telehealth services, patient support groups, education/training programs, research activities, and health technology assessments are needed to improve the care of patients with FH in these countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of home telemedicine for critical illness rehabilitation: an Indian success story.
Abstract: One-fifth of healthcare beneficiaries in developed nations get discharged from hospitals to physician supervised skilled nursing care facilities. In low-income and middle-income countries like India, postdischarge skilled nursing facilities are at a very nascent stage and largely underequipped in terms of infrastructure, skilled nursing and physician staff to manage complicated patients. Hence the responsibility of management of such patients lies largely with their families. We present a case where a 26-year-old man with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy who became ventilator dependent following major surgeries was weaned off his ventilator and rehabilitated back to his prehospital state. This was done at his home with visiting nurses and rehabilitation services under telemedicine supervision by a critical care specialist. Use of telemedicine services could be a viable and cost-effective option to ensure adherence to evidence-based medicine and standardisation of care in resource limited countries such as India.
Label Included: 0

Title: Optimization of Municipal Waste Collection Routing: Impact of Industry 4.0 Technologies on Environmental Awareness and Sustainability.
Abstract: The accelerated movement of people towards cities led to the fact that the world's urban population is now growing by 60-million persons per year. The increased number of cities' population has a significant impact on the produced volume of household waste, which must be collected and recycled in time. The collection of household waste, especially in downtown areas, has a wide range of challenges; the collection system must be reliable, flexible, cost efficient, and green. Within the frame of this paper, the authors describe the application possibilities of Industry 4.0 technologies in waste collection solutions and the optimization potential in their processes. After a systematic literature review, this paper introduces the waste collection process of downtowns as a cyber-physical system. A mathematical model of this waste collection process is described, which incorporates routing, assignment, and scheduling problems. The objectives of the model are the followings: (1) optimal assignment of waste sources to garbage trucks; (2) scheduling of the waste collection through routing of each garbage truck to minimize the total operation cost, increase reliability while comprehensive environmental indicators that have great impact on public health are to be taken into consideration. Next, a binary bat algorithm is described, whose performance is validated with different benchmark functions. The scenario analysis validates the model and then evaluates its performance to increase the cost-efficiency and warrant environmental awareness of waste collection process.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital Health Professions Education on Diabetes Management: Systematic Review by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is a shortage of health care professionals competent in diabetes management worldwide. Digital education is increasingly used in educating health professionals on diabetes. Digital diabetes self-management education for patients has been shown to improve patients' knowledge and outcomes. However, the effectiveness of digital education on diabetes management for health care professionals is still unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the effectiveness and economic impact of digital education in improving health care professionals' knowledge, skills, attitudes, satisfaction, and competencies. We also assessed its impact on patient outcomes and health care professionals' behavior.
METHODS: We included randomized controlled trials evaluating the impact of digitalized diabetes management education for health care professionals pre- and postregistration. Publications from 1990 to 2017 were searched in MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, CINAHL, ERIC, and Web of Science. Screening, data extraction and risk of bias assessment were conducted independently by 2 authors.
RESULTS: A total of 12 studies met the inclusion criteria. Studies were heterogeneous in terms of digital education modality, comparators, outcome measures, and intervention duration. Most studies comparing digital or blended education to traditional education reported significantly higher knowledge and skills scores in the intervention group. There was little or no between-group difference in patient outcomes or economic impact. Most studies were judged at a high or unclear risk of bias.
CONCLUSIONS: Digital education seems to be more effective than traditional education in improving diabetes management-related knowledge and skills. The paucity and low quality of the available evidence call for urgent and well-designed studies focusing on important outcomes such as health care professionals' behavior, patient outcomes, and cost-effectiveness as well as its impact in diverse settings, including developing countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Effectiveness of Mobile Health for Antenatal Care and Facility Births in Nigeria.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The use of mobile technology in the health sector, often referred to as mHealth, is an innovation that is being used in countries to improve health outcomes and increase and improve both the demand and supply of health care services. This study assesses the actual cost-effectiveness of initiating and implementing the use of the mHealth as a supply side job aid for antenatal care. The study also estimates the cost-effectiveness ratio if mHealth was also used to encourage and track women through facility delivery.
METHODS: The methodology utilized a retrospective, micro-costing technique to extract costing data from health facilities and administrative offices to estimate the costs of implementing the mHealth antenatal care program and estimate the cost of facility delivery for those that used the antenatal care services in the year 2014. Five different costing tools were developed to assist in the costing analysis.
FINDINGS: The results show that the provision of tetanus toxoid vaccination and malaria prophylaxis during pregnancy and improved labor and delivery during facility delivery contributed the most to mortality reductions for women, neonates and stillbirths in mHealth facilities versus non-mHealth facilities. The cost-effectiveness ratio of this program for antenatal care and no demand-side generation for facility delivery is US$13,739 per life saved. The cost-effectiveness ratio adding in an additional demand-side generation for facility births reduces to US$9,806 per life saved.
CONCLUSION: These results show that mHealth programs are inexpensive and save a number of lives for the dollar investment and could save additional lives and funds if women were also encouraged to seek facility delivery.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Telemedicine in Remote Orthopedic Consultations: Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine consultations using real-time videoconferencing has the potential to improve access and quality of care, avoid patient travels, and reduce health care costs.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of an orthopedic videoconferencing service between the University Hospital of North Norway and a regional medical center in a remote community located 148 km away.
METHODS: An economic evaluation based on a randomized controlled trial of 389 patients (559 consultations) referred to the hospital for an orthopedic outpatient consultation was conducted. The intervention group (199 patients) was randomized to receive video-assisted remote orthopedic consultations (302 consultations), while the control group (190 patients) received standard care in outpatient consultation at the hospital (257 consultations). A societal perspective was adopted for calculating costs. Health outcomes were measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. Resource use and health outcomes were collected alongside the trial at baseline and at 12 months follow-up using questionnaires, patient charts, and consultation records. These were valued using externally collected data on unit costs and QALY weights. An extended sensitivity analysis was conducted to address the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: This study showed that using videoconferencing for orthopedic consultations in the remote clinic costs less than standard outpatient consultations at the specialist hospital, as long as the total number of patient consultations exceeds 151 per year. For a total workload of 300 consultations per year, the annual cost savings amounted to €18,616. If costs were calculated from a health sector perspective, rather than a societal perspective, the number of consultations needed to break even was 183.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that providing video-assisted orthopedic consultations to a remote clinic in Northern Norway, rather than having patients travel to the specialist hospital for consultations, is cost-effective from both a societal and health sector perspective. This conclusion holds as long as the activity exceeds 151 and 183 patient consultations per year, respectively.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00616837; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00616837 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/762dZPoKX).
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Web-Based Patient-Reported Outcome Surveillance in Patients With Lung Cancer.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: A multicenter randomized clinical trial in France found an overall survival benefit of web-based patient-reported outcome (PRO)-based surveillance after initial treatment for lung cancer compared with conventional surveillance. The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of this PRO-based surveillance in lung cancer patients.
METHODS: This medico-economic analysis used data from the clinical trial, augmented by abstracted chart data and costs of consultations, imaging, transportations, information technology, and treatments. Costs were calculated based on actual reimbursement rates in France, and health utilities were estimated based on scientific literature review. Willingness-to-pay thresholds of €30,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and €90,000 per QALY were used to define a very cost-effective and cost-effective strategy, respectively. Average annual costs of experimental and control surveillance approaches were calculated. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was expressed as cost per life-year gained and QALY gained, from the health insurance payer perspective. One-way and multivariate probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Average annual cost of surveillance follow-up was €362 lower per patient in the PRO arm (€941/year/patient) compared to control (€1,304/year/patient). The PRO approach presented an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of €12,127 per life-year gained and €20,912 per QALY gained. The probabilities that the experimental strategy is very cost-effective and cost-effective were 97% and 100%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Surveillance of lung cancer patients using web-based PRO reduced the follow-up costs. Compared to conventional monitoring, this surveillance modality represents a cost-effective strategy and should be considered in cancer care delivery.
Label Included: 0

Title: Lung Cancer App (LuCApp) study protocol: a randomised controlled trial to evaluate a mobile supportive care app for patients with metastatic lung cancer.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Mobile health technologies may enhance patient empowerment and data integration along the whole care continuum. However, these interventions pose relatively new regulatory, organisational and technological challenges that limit appropriate evaluation. Lung Cancer App (LuCApp) is a mobile application developed by researchers and clinicians to promote real-time monitoring and management of patients' symptoms. This protocol illustrates a clinical trial designed to evaluate the usability, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of LuCApp versus standard of care.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a 24-week two-arm non-blinded multicentre parallel randomised controlled trial. A total of 120 adult patients diagnosed with small or non-small cell lung cancer and eligible for pharmaceutical treatments will be allocated 1:1 to receiving either standard care or LuCApp in addition to standard care at three oncology sites in Northern Italy. During the treatment period, LuCApp allows daily monitoring and grading of a list of symptoms, which trigger alerts to the physicians in case predefined severity thresholds are met. Patients will complete a baseline assessment and a set of valid and reliable patient-reported outcome measures every 3±1 weeks, and up to 24 weeks. The primary outcome is the change in the score of the Trial Outcome Index in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (Lung) questionnaire from baseline to 12 weeks. Secondary outcomes are the Lung Cancer Subscale, the EuroQoL 5D-5L questionnaire, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, the Supportive Care Needs Survey Short Form, the app usability questionnaire and the Zarit Burden Interview for the main caregiver.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The trial received ethical approval from the three clinical sites. Trial results will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
CONCLUSIONS: This trial makes a timely contribution to test a mobile application designed to improve the quality of life and delivery of care for patients with lung cancer.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03512015; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Therapist-guided and parent-guided internet-delivered behaviour therapy for paediatric Tourette's disorder: a pilot randomised controlled trial with long-term follow-up.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Behaviour therapy (BT) for Tourette's disorder (TD) and persistent (chronic) motor or vocal tic disorder (PTD) is rarely available. We evaluated the feasibility of adapting two existing BT protocols for TD/PTD (habit reversal training (HRT) and exposure and response prevention (ERP)) into a therapist-guided and parent-guided online self-help format.
DESIGN: A pilot, single-blind, parallel group randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: A specialist outpatient clinic in Sweden.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-three young people with TD/PTD, aged 8-16.
INTERVENTIONS: Two 10-week therapist-guided and parent-guided internet-delivered programmes (called BIP TIC HRT and BIP TIC ERP).
OUTCOME: The primary outcome measure was the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale. Blinded evaluators rated symptoms at baseline, post-treatment and 3-month follow-up (primary endpoint). All participants were naturalistically followed up to 12 months after treatment.
RESULTS: Patients and parents rated the interventions as highly acceptable, credible and satisfactory. While both interventions resulted in reduced tic-related impairment, parent-rated tic severity and improved quality of life, only BIP TIC ERP resulted in a significant improvement on the primary outcome measure. Within-group effect sizes and responder rates were, respectively: d=1.12 and 75% for BIP TIC ERP, and d=0.50 and 55% for BIP TIC HRT. The therapeutic gains were maintained up to 12 months after the end of the treatment. Adverse events were rare in both groups. The average therapist support time was around 25 min per participant per week.
CONCLUSIONS: Internet-delivered BT has the potential to greatly increase access to evidence-based treatment for young people with TD/PTD. Further evaluation of the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of this treatment modality is warranted.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02864589; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Closing the Gap Between Recommended and Actual Human Milk Use for Fragile Infants: What Will It Take to Overcome Disparities?
Abstract: This article describes the components of human milk and their value to reduce risk for necrotizing enterocolitis, disparities in access to human milk, potential relationships to care practices within the neonatal intensive care unit, and ways to overcome the disparity.
Label Included: 0

Title: Philadelphia Telemedicine Glaucoma Detection and Follow-up Study: confirmation between eye screening and comprehensive eye examination diagnoses.
Abstract: AIMS: To evaluate agreement between ocular findings of a telemedicine eye screening (visit 1) with diagnoses of a comprehensive eye examination (visit 2).
METHODS: A primary care practice (PCP)-based telemedicine screening programme incorporating fundus photography, intraocular pressure (IOP) and clinical information was conducted. Eligible individuals were African American, Hispanic/Latino or Asian over the age of 40; Caucasian individuals over age 65; and adults of any ethnicity over age 40 with a family history of glaucoma or diabetes. Participants with abnormal images or elevated IOP were invited back for a complete eye examination. Both visit 1 and visit 2 were conducted at participants' local PCP. Ocular findings at visit 1 and eye examination diagnoses at visit 2 are presented, including a cost analysis.
RESULTS: Of 906 participants who attended visit 1, 536 were invited to visit 2 due to ocular findings or unreadable images. Among the 347 (64.9%) who attended visit 2, 280 (80.7%) were diagnosed with at least one ocular condition. Participants were predominately women (59.9%) and African American (65.6%), with a mean age (±SD) of 60.6±11.0 years. A high diagnostic confirmation rate (86.0%) was found between visit 1 and visit 2 for any ocular finding. Of 183 with suspicious nerves at visit 1, 143 (78.1%) were diagnosed as glaucoma or glaucoma suspects at visit 2.
CONCLUSIONS: This screening model may be adapted and scaled nationally and internationally. Referral to an ophthalmologist is warranted if abnormal or unreadable fundus images are detected or IOP is >21 mm Hg.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02390245.
Label Included: 0

Title: The use of digital pathology and image analysis in clinical trials.
Abstract: Digital pathology and image analysis potentially provide greater accuracy, reproducibility and standardisation of pathology-based trial entry criteria and endpoints, alongside extracting new insights from both existing and novel features. Image analysis has great potential to identify, extract and quantify features in greater detail in comparison to pathologist assessment, which may produce improved prediction models or perform tasks beyond manual capability. In this article, we provide an overview of the utility of such technologies in clinical trials and provide a discussion of the potential applications, current challenges, limitations and remaining unanswered questions that require addressing prior to routine adoption in such studies. We reiterate the value of central review of pathology in clinical trials, and discuss inherent logistical, cost and performance advantages of using a digital approach. The current and emerging regulatory landscape is outlined. The role of digital platforms and remote learning to improve the training and performance of clinical trial pathologists is discussed. The impact of image analysis on quantitative tissue morphometrics in key areas such as standardisation of immunohistochemical stain interpretation, assessment of tumour cellularity prior to molecular analytical applications and the assessment of novel histological features is described. The standardisation of digital image production, establishment of criteria for digital pathology use in pre-clinical and clinical studies, establishment of performance criteria for image analysis algorithms and liaison with regulatory bodies to facilitate incorporation of image analysis applications into clinical practice are key issues to be addressed to improve digital pathology incorporation into clinical trials.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects of a standardized emergency department protocol on after-hours use of venous duplex ultrasound.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Vascular laboratory (VL) venous duplex ultrasound is the "gold standard" for diagnosis of lower extremity deep venous thrombosis (DVT), which is linked to many morbid conditions. Decreasing night and weekend use of VL services in the emergency department (ED) represents a potentially viable means of reducing costs as skilled personnel must remain on call and receive a wage premium when activated. We investigated the effects of workflow changes that required ED providers to use a computerized decision-making tool, integrated into the electronic medical record, to calculate a Wells score for each patient considered for an after-hours venous duplex ultrasound study for suspected DVT.
METHODS: The rate of VL use and study positivity before and after implementation of the decision-making tool were examined in addition to measures of ED throughput, rate of concomitant pulmonary embolism, disposition of examined patients from the ED, observed thrombus distribution in duplex ultrasound studies positive for DVT, and calculated personnel costs of after-hours VL use.
RESULTS: A total of 391 after-hours, ED-initiated venous duplex ultrasound studies were obtained during the 4-year study period (n = 213 before intervention, n = 178 after intervention; P = .12). Whereas the period immediately after the start of the intervention saw a decrease in VL use, this was not sustained. Studies performed after the intervention were not more likely to be positive for acute DVT (12.2% vs 18%; P = .1179). The average Wells score was 2.8 (range, 0-6). VL personnel were called in 347 times during the 4-year period, with a total cost of $14,643.40. Nurse-ordered studies were significantly more likely to be positive, with 22% revealing acute DVT compared with 12% for physician-ordered studies (P = .042). The intervention resulted in significant improvements in ED throughput, with time between triage and study request falling from 226 minutes to 165 minutes (P < .001). Observed thrombus distribution revealed involvement of the most proximal external iliac system in a minority of cases (11%), whereas most thrombi (89%) were limited to the femoropopliteal, calf, and superficial venous systems.
CONCLUSIONS: A requirement for ED providers to document a Wells score before obtaining an after-hours venous duplex ultrasound study resulted in only a transient decrease in VL use but improved ED throughput. Studies ordered by nurses were significantly more likely to be positive, possibly as a result of consistent protocol adherence compared with the physicians. Future studies may warrant investigation into this provider variance.
Label Included: 0

Title: In hot water: The impact of burn injuries from hot water bottles - Experience of a UK burns unit and review of the literature.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Hot water bottles (HWBs) are a common domestic item in the UK. Their use is associated with burns injuries, either by contact for prolonged periods with the skin, or through the HWB leaking or bursting.
METHODS: We used electronic health records to retrospectively review HWB related burns treated by the Burns Service at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital between January 2017-March 2018. We analysed the mechanism of injury, size and depth of burn, method of treatment and costs associated with HWB burns in our centre.
RESULTS: 80 patients sustained HWB burns during this period, with a similar incidence of contact burns (41/80, 51.3%) and scalds (38/80, 47.5%), with one steam burn. The commonest area burnt was the lower limb (40/80, 50%). Most burns had a TBSA of 1% or smaller (50/80, 62.5%). 30 patients had full thickness burns, with 37 in total received operative management. We estimate that the total cost for managing this cohort of patients was over £68,634.
CONCLUSIONS: There are a significant proportion of patients presenting with HWB burns that could be prevented, with significant impact on patient morbidity and resource burden on the NHS. Targeted public awareness campaigns are needed to ameliorate these injuries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Technology for Community Health in Ghana: Is Maternal Messaging and Provider Use of Technology Cost-Effective in Improving Maternal and Child Health Outcomes at Scale?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mobile technologies are emerging as tools to enhance health service delivery systems and empower clients to improve maternal, newborn, and child health. Limited evidence exists on the value for money of mobile health (mHealth) programs in low- and middle-income countries.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to forecast the incremental cost-effectiveness of the Mobile Technology for Community Health (MOTECH) initiative at scale across 170 districts in Ghana.
METHODS: MOTECH's "Client Data Application" allows frontline health workers to digitize service delivery information and track the care of patients. MOTECH's other main component, the "Mobile Midwife," sends automated educational voice messages to mobile phones of pregnant and postpartum women. We measured program costs and consequences of scaling up MOTECH over a 10-year analytic time horizon. Economic costs were estimated from informant interviews and financial records. Health effects were modeled using the Lives Saved Tool with data from an independent evaluation of changes in key services coverage observed in Gomoa West District. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were presented overall and for each year of implementation. Uncertainty analyses assessed the robustness of results to changes in key parameters.
RESULTS: MOTECH was scaled in clusters over a 3-year period to reach 78.7% (170/216) of Ghana's districts. Sustaining the program would cost US $17,618 on average annually per district. Over 10 years, MOTECH could potentially save an estimated 59,906 lives at a total cost of US $32 million. The incremental cost per disability-adjusted life year averted ranged from US $174 in the first year to US $6.54 in the tenth year of implementation and US $20.94 (95% CI US $20.34-$21.55) over 10 years. Uncertainty analyses suggested that the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was most sensitive to changes in health effects, followed by personnel time. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses suggested that MOTECH had a 100% probability of being cost-effective above a willingness-to-pay threshold of US $50.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to estimate the value for money of the supply- and demand-side of an mHealth initiative. The adoption of MOTECH to improve MNCH service delivery and uptake represents good value for money in Ghana and should be considered for expansion. Integration with other mHealth solutions, including e-Tracker, may provide opportunities to continue or combine beneficial components of MOTECH to achieve a greater impact on health.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and safety of electronically delivered prescribing feedback and decision support on antibiotic use for respiratory illness in primary care: REDUCE cluster randomised trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effectiveness and safety at population scale of electronically delivered prescribing feedback and decision support interventions at reducing antibiotic prescribing for self limiting respiratory tract infections.
DESIGN: Open label, two arm, cluster randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: UK general practices in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink, randomised between 11 November 2015 and 9 August 2016, with final follow-up on 9 August 2017.
PARTICIPANTS: 79 general practices (582 675 patient years) randomised (1:1) to antimicrobial stewardship (AMS) intervention or usual care.
INTERVENTIONS: AMS intervention comprised a brief training webinar, automated monthly feedback reports of antibiotic prescribing, and electronic decision support tools to inform appropriate prescribing over 12 months. Intervention components were delivered electronically, supported by a local practice champion nominated for the trial.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcome was the rate of antibiotic prescriptions for respiratory tract infections from electronic health records. Serious bacterial complications were evaluated for safety. Analysis was by Poisson regression with general practice as a random effect, adjusting for covariates. Prespecified subgroup analyses by age group were reported.
RESULTS: The trial included 41 AMS practices (323 155 patient years) and 38 usual care practices (259 520 patient years). Unadjusted and adjusted rate ratios for antibiotic prescribing were 0.89 (95% confidence interval 0.68 to 1.16) and 0.88 (0.78 to 0.99, P=0.04), respectively, with prescribing rates of 98.7 per 1000 patient years for AMS (31 907 prescriptions) and 107.6 per 1000 patient years for usual care (27 923 prescriptions). Antibiotic prescribing was reduced most in adults aged 15-84 years (adjusted rate ratio 0.84, 95% confidence interval 0.75 to 0.95), with one antibiotic prescription per year avoided for every 62 patients (95% confidence interval 40 to 200). There was no evidence of effect for children younger than 15 years (adjusted rate ratio 0.96, 95% confidence interval 0.82 to 1.12) or people aged 85 years and older (0.97, 0.79 to 1.18); there was also no evidence of an increase in serious bacterial complications (0.92, 0.74 to 1.13).
CONCLUSIONS: Electronically delivered interventions, integrated into practice workflow, result in moderate reductions of antibiotic prescribing for respiratory tract infections in adults, which are likely to be of importance for public health. Antibiotic prescribing to very young or old patients requires further evaluation.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN95232781.
Label Included: 0

Title: Registry-Based Medical Research: Data Dredging or Value Building to Quality of Care?
Abstract: Registry-based medical research is an important tool in assessing health care interventions in the general population. Observational studies are used to establish effectiveness whereas randomized clinical trials assess efficacy in an experimental manner targeting a carefully selected population of patients. Medical registries may be office or hospital based, state/provincial, national, or more recently, global. Their role in postmarketing pharmacosurveillance is effective in detecting early adverse events and long-term benefits. Surgical disciplines use registry data to discover early device or prosthesis failures. Payers and administrators depend on medical registries to measure cost effectiveness (value). Patients are the ultimate beneficiary in terms of quality care. Current medical registries benefit from the explosion in medical informatics. The growth in the electronic health record for individual patients and hospitals provides an online wealth of data. The pharmaceutical industry has accurate cost usage data in many jurisdictions. Device manufacturers have upgraded data generated by using unique identifiers and device-generated surveillance alerts. Measurement of surgical innovations by registry is a new challenge. Quality data entry will become more user friendly and at reduced cost. A futuristic medical registry will be Internet based and require a higher degree of collaboration and harmonization to meet societal demand for timely "real world" data in measuring value delivered and accountability. This type of medical registry will only enhance value for patients, for the pharmaceutical and device industries, and for payers and administrators in augmenting quality patient care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Approaches to Demonstrating the Effectiveness and Impact of Usability Testing of Healthcare Information Technology.
Abstract: In recent years the usability of health information systems has come to the fore as a major issue, with many reported examples of problems with the usability of systems such as electronic health records and other health information technologies (HIT). In response a range of usability engineering methods have emerged to help in the design and evaluation of HIT. Many studies have shown the importance of usability testing methods that include full video recording of user interactions, such as the method known as low-cost rapid usability testing. However, such approaches have been considered by many as being too costly to carry out and some have argued that they may take too long to be used for practical input into improving applications and systems. In this paper we demonstrate several approaches we have taken for proving the cost-effectiveness and benefit of conducting principled usability testing. It is argued that such studies are needed to inform system design and evaluation and for proving to healthcare management the need for properly conducting such studies before releasing HIT.
Label Included: 0

Title: Community groups or mobile phone messaging to prevent and control type 2 diabetes and intermediate hyperglycaemia in Bangladesh (DMagic): a cluster-randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Strategies are needed to prevent and control type 2 diabetes and intermediate hyperglycaemia, which together affect roughly a third of adults in Bangladesh. We aimed to assess the effects of mHealth and community mobilisation on the prevalence of intermediate hyperglycaemia and diabetes among the general adult population in rural Bangladesh, and to assess the effect of these interventions on the incidence of type 2 diabetes among people with intermediate hyperglycaemia within the study population.
METHODS: DMagic was a three-arm, cluster-randomised trial of participatory community mobilisation, mHealth mobile phone messaging, and usual care (control) in 96 villages (population roughly 125 000) in Bangladesh. Community mobilisation involved 18 monthly group meetings, led by lay facilitators, applying a participatory learning and action (PLA) cycle focused on diabetes prevention and control. mHealth involved twice-weekly voice messages over 14 months promoting behaviour change to reduce diabetes risk. The primary outcomes were the combined prevalence of type 2 diabetes and intermediate hyperglycaemia in the overall population at the end of the intervention implementation period, and 2-year cumulative incidence of type 2 diabetes in a cohort with intermediate hyperglycaemia at baseline. Primary outcomes were assessed through fasting blood glucose concentrations and 2-h oral glucose tolerance tests among a cross-section of adults aged 30 years and older and a cohort of individuals identified with intermediate hyperglycaemia. Prevalence findings are based on a cross-sectional survey at the end of the study; incidence findings are based on 2-year follow-up survey of a cohort of individuals identified with intermediate hyperglycaemia through a cross-sectional survey at baseline. We also assessed the cost-effectiveness of the interventions. This trial is registered with the ISRCTN registry, number ISRCTN41083256, and is completed.
FINDINGS: The study took place between June 27, 2015, and June 28, 2018, with the PLA intervention running in 32 villages from June, 2016, to December, 2017, and the mHealth intervention running in 32 villages from Oct 21, 2016, to Dec 24, 2017. End-of study prevalence was assessed in 11 454 individuals and incidence in 2100 individuals. There was a large reduction in the combined prevalence of type 2 diabetes and intermediate hyperglycaemia in the PLA group compared with the control group at the end of the study (adjusted [for stratification, clustering, and wealth] odds ratio [aOR] 0·36 [0·27-0·48]), with an absolute reduction of 20·7% (95% CI 14·6-26·7). Among 2470 adults with intermediate hyperglycaemia at baseline, 2100 (85%) were followed-up at 2 years. The 2-year cumulative incidence of diabetes in this cohort was significantly lower in the PLA group compared with control (aOR 0·39, 0·24-0·65), representing an absolute incidence reduction of 8·7% (3·5-14·0). There was no evidence of effect of mHealth on combined prevalence of intermediate hyperglycaemia and diabetes (aOR 0·93, 0·74-1·16) or the incidence of diabetes (1·02, 0·73-1·43). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for PLA were INT$316 per case of intermediate hyperglycaemia or type 2 diabetes prevented and $6518 per case of type 2 diabetes prevented among individuals with intermediate hyperglycaemia.
INTERPRETATION: Our data provide strong evidence to support the use of community mobilisation based on PLA to prevent type 2 diabetes in this rural Bangladeshi population. Despite raising knowledge and awareness of diabetes, the mHealth intervention did not change disease outcomes in our population. Replication studies in other populations should be a priority.
FUNDING: UK Medical Research Council.
Label Included: 0

Title: CARer-ADministration of as-needed subcutaneous medication for breakthrough symptoms in homebased dying patients (CARiAD): study protocol for a UK-based open randomised pilot trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: While the majority of seriously ill people wish to die at home, only half achieve this. The likelihood of someone dying at home often depends on the availability of able and willing lay carers to support them. Dying people are usually unable to take oral medication. When top-up symptom relief medication is required, a clinician travels to the home to administer injectable medication, with attendant delays. The administration of subcutaneous injections by lay carers, though not widespread practice in the UK, has proven key in achieving home deaths in other countries. Our aim is to determine if carer-administration of as-needed subcutaneous medication for four frequent breakthrough symptoms (pain, nausea, restlessness and noisy breathing) in home-based dying patients is feasible and acceptable in the UK.
METHODS: This paper describes a randomised pilot trial across three UK sites, with an embedded qualitative study. Dyads of adult patients/carers are eligible, where patients are in the last weeks of life and wish to die at home, and lay carers who are willing to be trained to give subcutaneous medication. Dyads who do not meet strict risk assessment criteria (including known history of substance abuse or carer ability to be trained to competency) will not be approached. Carers in the intervention arm will receive a manualised training package delivered by their local nursing team. Dyads in the control arm will receive usual care. The main outcomes of interest are feasibility, acceptability, recruitment rates, attrition and selection of the most appropriate outcome measures. Interviews with carers and healthcare professionals will explore attitudes to, experiences of and preferences for giving subcutaneous medication and experience of trial processes. The study has obtained full ethical approval.
DISCUSSION: This study will rehearse the procedures and logistics which will be undertaken in a future definitive randomised controlled trial and will inform the design of such a study. Findings will illuminate methodological and ethical issues pertaining to researching last days of life care. The study is funded by the National Institute for Health Research (Health Technology Assessment [HTA] project 15/10/37).
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN, ISRCTN 11211024 . Registered on 27 September 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Access to Affordable, High-Quality Health Insurance for Rural Residents and Its Impact on Their Health and on Rural Hospitals.
Abstract: Access to rural health care is an ongoing challenge for those living in America's countryside. Hospital closures, a fragmented and dislocated care delivery system, disproportionate levels of chronic illness, and poverty combine to present significant obstacles to health reform. This article highlights the major challenges in rural health care and specifies financial and delivery policy options that can strengthen rural health care. In particular, this article suggests a return to a prepaid approach within the umbrella organizational framework of what we term "rural convening entities." These entities would serve as the control of telehealth hubs for the communities they serve.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a pilot paediatric concussion telemedicine programme for northern communities in Manitoba.
Abstract: Pediatric concussion patients living in northern communities in Canada can face unique challenges accessing primary and specialized healthcare. In this study we report the clinical characteristics, healthcare utilization, outcomes and estimated cost avoidance associated with a pilot pediatric concussion telemedicine program established between a multi-disciplinary pediatric concussion program in Winnipeg, Manitoba and a hospital in Thompson, Manitoba. From October 1st- July 1st, 2018, 20 patients were evaluated; mean age 13.1 years, 15 (75%) males and 14 (70%) self-identified as Indigenous. Injury mechanisms included hockey (50%), falls (35%) and assaults (15%). Median time from referral to initial consultation was 2.0 days. After screening by the neurosurgeon, 90% of patients underwent initial consultation via real-time videoconferencing with 80% managed exclusively through telemedicine. At the end of the study, 90% met the criteria for clinical recovery, one remained in treatment and one was discharged to a headache neurologist. Sixty-six telemedicine encounters were completed including 57 videoconferencing appointments and 9 telephone follow-ups representing an estimated cost avoidance of $40,972.94. This study suggests telemedicine may be a useful approach to assist pediatric concussion programs with delivering timely, safe and cost-effective care to patients living in medically underserviced remote and northern communities in Canada.
Label Included: 0

Title: Facilitators and Barriers for Implementing an Internet Clinic for the Treatment of Pressure Injuries.
Abstract: Background: Pressure injuries (PIs) represent a frequent, often preventable, secondary complication of spinal cord injury (SCI) with serious consequences to health, societal participation, and quality of life. Specialized knowledge and service delivery related to treatment and prevention are typically located within major health centers.Introduction: For persons with SCI living at home, it can be challenging to access specialized PI care. A telehealth approach could help mitigate this challenge. This multisite pilot investigation assessed the feasibility of integrating information technologies within the management of PIs.Materials and Methods: Each study site formed a specialized interdisciplinary care team that identified components of their standard clinical care pathway and examined how they could be integrated with study technologies. A monitoring system was utilized to enable patients and caregivers to exchange clinical information with the care team.Results: Clinician and patient focus groups were completed to identify facilitators and barriers for long-term implementation. Findings demonstrate that this method of service delivery is feasible but requires further development.Discussion: This model of care requires refinement to address technological, regulatory, and clinician acceptance barriers; however, increased access to these services has the potential for improving PI healing or prevention rates in comparison with those not able to access specialized services.Conclusions: This project demonstrates that PI treatment services can be delivered effectively through the internet. Future trials can investigate efficacy and cost-effectiveness of this model of care to inform sustained implementation.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Review of Telehealth Innovations for HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP).
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review summarizes novel interventions that employ technology to improve HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) availability, uptake, and adherence.
RECENT FINDINGS: Several notable technology-based programs are increasing access to PrEP in unique ways. We identified multiple models for using telehealth to bolster PrEP dissemination and adherence, such as mobile applications that offer PrEP prescribing without an in-person visit, longitudinal distance telementoring for community provider PrEP education and clinical guidance, and electronic consults for PrEP specialist support in the primary care setting. Outcomes data for all of these modalities are limited but show promise. Technology-based interventions can address gaps in the PrEP care continuum. Future research should assess and compare outcomes, scalability, cost-effectiveness, and sustainability. Costs associated with the creation of new technological tools slow innovation and the field would benefit from a platform for technology sharing.
Label Included: 0

Title: Longitudinal Experience with Remote Monitoring for Automated Peritoneal Dialysis Patients.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is an ideal model for testing remote monitoring (RM). In this study, we evaluated the RM application longitudinally in stable patients undergoing automated PD (APD).
METHODS: This was an observational study, comparing outcomes in patients with (current patients) and without (historical data) exposure of RM. We analyzed cost-effectiveness of RM-APD measuring the number of night alarms, number of hospital visits, direct and indirect costs.
RESULTS: Changes in APD prescription were almost double in the case group (RM) compared to the control group (p = 0.0005). The need for in-person visits and nocturnal alarms was significantly less in RM-APD than in traditional APD (p = 0.01 and p = 0.002, respectively). The distance traveled by patients in the case of RM-APD was reduced by 1,134 km with a time saving of 1,554 min for patients. The overall cost reduction for the PD center in terms of time/nurse and time/physician was 2,647 and 3,673 min, respectively. All these advantages were obtained in the presence of an improved technique survival with a significant reduction of dropouts. All patients found that it is easy to use the RM system and were satisfied with the high level of interaction with the care team and with the possibility of timely resolving technical problems.
CONCLUSION: These data confirm the long-term benefits of RM applied to APD. RM-APD is cost-effective; it allows early detection and resolution of problems, improved treatment compliance, reduction of patient's access to hospital center for technical and clinical complications with consequent savings, and improved patient's quality of life.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating Lung Cancer Screening Uptake, Outcomes, and Costs in the United States: Challenges With Existing Data and Recommendations for Improvement.
Abstract: The National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) reported substantial reduction in lung cancer mortality among high-risk individuals screened annually with low-dose helical computed tomography (LDCT). As a result, the US Preventive Services Task Force issued a B recommendation for annual LDCT in high-risk individuals, which requires private insurers to cover it without cost-sharing. The Medicare program also covers LDCT for high-risk beneficiaries without cost-sharing. However, the NLST findings may not be generalizable to the community setting because of differences in patients, providers, and practices participating in the NLST. Thus, examining uptake of LDCT screening in community practice is critical, as is evaluating the immediate and downstream outcomes of screening, including false-positive scans, follow-up examinations and adverse events, costs, stage of disease at diagnosis, and survival. This commentary presents an overview of the landscape of the data resources currently available to evaluate the uptake, outcomes, and costs of LDCT screening in the United States. We describe the strengths and limitations of existing data sources, including administrative databases, surveys, and registries. Thereafter, we provide recommendations for improving the data infrastructure pertaining to three overarching research areas: receipt of guideline-consistent screening and follow-up, weighing benefits and harms of screening, and costs of screening.
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost-effectiveness analysis of a colorectal cancer screening program in safety net clinics.
Abstract: STOP CRC is a cluster-randomized pragmatic study of a colorectal cancer (CRC) screening program within eight federally-qualified health centers (FQHCs) in Oregon and California promoting fecal immunochemical testing (FIT) with appropriate colonoscopy follow-up. Results are presented of a cost-effectiveness analysis of STOP CRC. Organization staff completed activity-based costing spreadsheets, assigning labor hours by intervention activity and job-specific wage rates. Non-labor costs were from study data. Data were collected over February 2014-February 2016; analyses were performed in 2016-2017. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) using completed FITs adjusted for number of screening-eligible patients (SEPs), as the effectiveness measure were calculated overall and by organization. Intervention delivery costs totaled $305 K across eight organizations (range: $10.2 K-$110 K). Overall delivery cost per SEP was $14.43 (range: $10.37-$19.10). The largest cost category across organizations was implementation, specifically mailing preparation. The overall ICER was $483 per SEP-adjusted completed FIT (range: $96-$1021 among organizations with positive effectiveness). Lagged data accounting for implementation delay produced comparable results. The costs of colonoscopies following abnormal FITs decreased the overall ICER to S409 because usual care clinics generated more such colonoscopies than intervention clinics. Using lagged data, follow-up colonoscopies increase the ICER by 4.3% to $460. Results indicate the complex implications for cost-effectiveness of implementing standard CRC screening within a pragmatic setting involving FQHCs with varied patient populations, clinical structures, and resources. Performance variation across organizations emphasizes the need for future evaluations that inform the introduction of efficient CRC screening to underserved populations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving Blood Pressure Among African Americans With Hypertension Using a Mobile Health Approach (the MI-BP App): Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: African Americans shoulder significant disparities related to hypertension (HTN), which is a serious public health problem in the city of Detroit, Michigan, where more than 80% of the population is African American. Connectivity through smartphones, use of home blood pressure (BP) monitoring, and newly developed mobile health (mHealth) interventions can facilitate behavioral changes and may improve long-term self-care for chronic conditions, but implementation of a combined approach utilizing these methods has not been tested among African American patients with uncontrolled HTN. Since African Americans are more likely than other racial or ethnic subgroups to utilize the emergency department (ED) for ambulatory care, this presents an opportunity to intervene on a population that is otherwise difficult to reach.
OBJECTIVE: The MI-BP app aims to reduce health disparities related to HTN in the community by employing a user-centered intervention focused on self-BP monitoring, physical activity, reduced sodium intake, and medication adherence. We seek to test the efficacy of MI-BP, an mHealth app for HTN self-management, on BP control (primary aim), physical activity, sodium intake, and medication adherence (secondary aim) in African Americans with HTN. This study also seeks to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of MI-BP when compared with usual care methods.
METHODS: This is a 1-year randomized controlled trial that will recruit individuals who have uncontrolled HTN from 2 EDs in the city of Detroit, with a planned sample size of 396 randomized participants. To be eligible for inclusion, potential participants must be African American, 25 to 70 years old, previously diagnosed with HTN, have a smartphone compatible with MI-BP, and have uncontrolled BP at triage and on repeat measurement at least 1-hour post triage vitals. Once a participant is deemed eligible, all study procedures and subsequent follow-up visits (8 in total) are conducted at the Wayne State University Clinical Research Service Center. We seek to determine the effect of MI-BP on BP for 1 year (using BP control and mean systolic BP as coprimary outcomes and physical activity, sodium intake, and medication adherence as secondary outcomes) compared with usual care controls.
RESULTS: Recruitment for this study began in January 2018. The study will continue through 2021.
CONCLUSIONS: As the first of its kind conducted in an ED setting, MI-BP was designed to document the efficacy and acceptability of a multicomponent mHealth approach to help African Americans with uncontrolled BP modify their lifestyle to better manage their HTN. We expect to lay the foundation to sustainably reduce HTN-related health disparities through better integration of multiple behavior self-monitoring and improve outcomes for those who traditionally rely on the ED for chronic disease care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02360293; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02360293.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR1-10.2196/12601.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hospital based care at home; study protocol for a mixed epidemiological and randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Individuals with spinal cord injuries (SCI) are prone to pressure ulcers (PUs) because of the loss of sensorimotor function involved as well as increased skin moisture. Treatment of PU after SCI is complicated, involving different specialties and with need for long-lasting follow-up. This study should identify risk factors for PU after SCI, and find an effective and less time-consuming treatment for the condition among different available methods for follow-up.
METHOD/DESIGN: The first part of this research project aims to investigate the prevalence of PU among persons with SCI based on an epidemiological design. The study will identify possible risk factors for acquiring PU. A questionnaire focusing on previous and present PUs will be sent to persons who suffered SCIs between January 2004 and January 2014. In the second part we will compare two different treatment regimens of PU through a randomized controlled pilot trial (RCT) where we will compare outpatient SCI follow-up in a hospital versus outpatient follow-up from the patient's home, using telemedicine (teleSCI) interventions. We will compare the healing of the PU in the two groups (usual care versus teleSCI). The Tissue, Infection, Moisture Edge (TIME) registration form, the Photographic Wound Assessment Tool (PWAT) and the change in the ulcer size will be used to monitor the healing. Changes in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and the need for assistance will be assessed using the Five Dimensions European Quality of Life scale (EQ-5D), the generic Medical Outcomes Study 12-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12) modified version, the International Spinal Cord Injury Quality of Life Data set (ISCI-QoL Data set), and the Spinal Cord Independence Measure scale, version III (SCIM III). In addition to primary outcome measures, a cost-benefit evaluation and an assessment of patient satisfaction and participation will be performed, using customized questionnaires.
DISCUSSION: The first part of the research project will reveal the epidemiology of PU after SCI, and explore the risk factors. This part enables further prevention of PU after SCI and this information will be used in the follow-up RCT. Videoconferencing in the outpatient follow-up of persons with SCI and PU will change clinical routines and facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration, communication and competence exchange among participants of the health care services. Our research protocol allows comparing methods for interaction between medical specialists at hospitals, local caregivers in the community, next of kin, and persons with SCI and PU. The RCT should identify advantages as well as challenges in the management of PU in different follow-up settings. This study aims to identify risk factors for PU after SCI, and find an effective and less time consuming treatment for the condition among different available methods for follow- up.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: 1. www.ClinicalTrials.gov , ID: NCT02800915 , last update 9 October 2017. 2. The National Regional Ethical Committee (REC) 2014/ 684/ REK-Nord. https://helseforskning.etikkom.no/prosjekterirek/prosjektregister/prosjekt?p_document_id=469163&p_parent_id=473640&_ikbLanguageCode=n 3. https://app.cristin.no/projects/show.jsf?id=545284 4. https://www.sunnaas.no/kliniske-studier/bruk-av-telemedisin-som-virkemiddel-til-samhandling-i-poliklinisk-oppfolging-av-pasienter-med-ryggmargsskade-og-trykksar.
Label Included: 0

Title: Data collected by the electronic health record is insufficient for estimating nursing costs: An observational study on acute care inpatient nursing units.
Abstract: Introduction As the electronic health record becomes more sophisticated, commensurate advances in cost accounting have risen as a top priority for hospital leaders. This study explored: 1) the average time to complete common nursing tasks documented in the electronic health record, 2) nursing-related tasks that remain undocumented, 3) the association between observation data and actual nursing documentation, and 4) considerations for model development and report design to be used for activity based cost accounting in nursing. Methods This was an observational study completed on acute care inpatient nursing units at a large academic medical center. During a five-week period, 63 nurses from 25 units were observed for over 250 h. Results Nearly 60% of the observed nursing activities did not fit into categories readily available in, and easily abstracted from, the electronic health record. The undocumented activities accounted for over half of the observation tasks and equated to nearly 130 h, in which over 40 h were spent on the activity of documentation/charting itself. Furthermore, nearly 36 h were spent on communication, followed by 13.5 h on monitoring/surveillance, two critical tasks in nursing which cannot be overlooked. Conclusions Using the electronic health record for cost accounting in nursing is a novel approach. In addition to the electronic health record, supplementary sources of data must be included to accurately capture nursing work and associated costs. Findings and lessons learned from this study will be used to guide future work and develop a model that determines the cost of nursing care and improved value in hospitalized patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Potential Impact of Alzheimer's Disease Early Treatment on Societal Costs of Care in Czechia: A Simulation Approach.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In Czechia, only about a quarter of people suffering from the Alzheimer's disease (AD) receive (usually belated) treatment. Because of their more rapid cognitive decline, untreated patients require extensive assistance with basic daily activities earlier than those receiving treatment. This assistance provided at home and nursing homes represents a substantial economic burden.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: To calculate lifetime costs of care per AD patient and to evaluate potential care savings from early treatment.
METHODS: We use Monte Carlo simulation to model lifetime societal costs of care per patient under two different scenarios. In the first one, a cohort of 100,000 homogeneous patients receives usual care under which the majority of patients are undiagnosed or diagnosed late. The second scenario models a hypothetical situation in which an identical cohort of patients starts receiving treatment early after the disease onset. Data on the rates of cognitive decline for treated and untreated patients, and survival probability for AD patients are derived from foreign clinical studies. Information on costs and population characteristics is compiled on the basis of published Czech research and databases.
RESULTS: Early treatment of AD decreases social lifetime costs of care. This result holds true regardless of gender, age at which the disease is contracted, or whether the patient lives at home or uses a social residential service. The potential savings amount up to Euro 26,800 (23,500) per woman (man), being negatively correlated with the age at which the disease onsets as well as the delay between the onset and treatment initiation DISCUSSION: The results suggest that early treatment of AD would decrease costs of care in Czechia. The main limitation of the simulation arises from the fact that missing domestic information was substituted by input from foreign clinical trials or simplifying assumptions. Because of insufficient data, we do not model hospitalization risk; on the other hand, introduction of this risk into our model would likely increase the savings from early treatment.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICIES: Makers of AD policies ought to appreciate the trade-off between costs of daily assistance in untreated patients and health care costs in treated patients, notwithstanding that the costs of assistance are largely born by households rather than public budgets. Our results show that the savings on costs of assistance brought about by early treatment would exceed the additional costs of treatment.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: A number of missing or insufficient data about the Czech Alzheimer's population were identified. In addition, to determine the total societal cost-effect of early treatment, further research ought to evaluate the related increase in detection costs. Finally, it should also assess cost-effectiveness of early treatment by considering its impact on patients' utility.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical and economic outcomes of remotely delivered cognitive behaviour therapy versus treatment as usual for repeat unscheduled care users with severe health anxiety: a multicentre randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: It is challenging to engage repeat users of unscheduled healthcare with severe health anxiety in psychological help and high service costs are incurred. We investigated whether clinical and economic outcomes were improved by offering remote cognitive behaviour therapy (RCBT) using videoconferencing or telephone compared to treatment as usual (TAU).
METHODS: A single-blind, parallel group, multicentre randomised controlled trial was undertaken in primary and general hospital care. Participants were aged ≥18 years with ≥2 unscheduled healthcare contacts within 12 months and scored >18 on the Health Anxiety Inventory. Randomisation to RCBT or TAU was stratified by site, with allocation conveyed to a trial administrator, research assessors masked to outcome. Data were collected at baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. The primary outcome was change in HAI score from baseline to six months on an intention-to-treat basis. Secondary outcomes were generalised anxiety, depression, physical symptoms, function and overall health. Health economics analysis was conducted from a health service and societal perspective.
RESULTS: Of the 524 patients who were referred and assessed for trial eligibility, 470 were eligible and 156 (33%) were recruited; 78 were randomised to TAU and 78 to RCBT. Compared to TAU, RCBT significantly reduced health anxiety at six months, maintained to 9 and 12 months (mean change difference HAI -2.81; 95% CI -5.11 to -0.50; P = 0.017). Generalised anxiety, depression and overall health was significantly improved at 12 months, but there was no significant change in physical symptoms or function. RCBT was strictly dominant with a net monetary benefit of £3,164 per participant at a willingness to pay threshold of £30,000. No treatment-related adverse events were reported in either group.
CONCLUSIONS: RCBT may reduce health anxiety, general anxiety and depression and improve overall health, with considerable reductions in health and informal care costs in repeat users of unscheduled care with severe health anxiety who have previously been difficult to engage in psychological treatment. RCBT may be an easy-to-implement intervention to improve clinical outcome and save costs in one group of repeat users of unscheduled care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov on 19 Nov 2014 with reference number NCT02298036.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparison of clinical and cost-effectiveness of two strategies using mobile digital x-ray to detect pulmonary tuberculosis in rural India.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Medanta - The Medicity, a multi-super specialty corporate hospital in Gurugram, Haryana launched a "TB-Free Haryana" Campaign; mobile van equipped with a digital CXR machine to screen patients with presumptive Tuberculosis (TB).
OBJECTIVES: In this study, we aimed to assess the (1) yield and cost analysis of two strategies using mobile digital x-ray to detect Pulmonary TB in rural Haryana.
METHODS: An observational study was conducted on all individuals screened by either of the two case finding strategies using a mobile x-ray unit (MXU) mounted on a mobile van in District Mewat, Haryana during Jan-March 2016.
RESULTS: Strategy 1: Out of 121 smear negative cases, x-rays were suggestive of TB in 39(32%), of which 24 were started on TB treatment. Cost of identifying a smear negative TB was US$ 32. Strategy 2: Out of 596 presumptive TB, chest x-rays were suggestive of TB in 108 (18%), of which 67 were started on TB treatment (56 were smear negative TB). Cost of detecting any case of TB was US$ 08 (1 USD = 64 INR).
CONCLUSION: The study reports a new initiative within a PPM model to improve the diagnosis of PTB by filling the gap in the current diagnostic infrastructure. We believe there is potential for replication of strategy 2 model in other states, although further evidence is required.
Label Included: 0

Title: Virtual Reality for Health Professions Education: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis by the Digital Health Education Collaboration.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Virtual reality (VR) is a technology that allows the user to explore and manipulate computer-generated real or artificial three-dimensional multimedia sensory environments in real time to gain practical knowledge that can be used in clinical practice.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the effectiveness of VR for educating health professionals and improving their knowledge, cognitive skills, attitudes, and satisfaction.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review of the effectiveness of VR in pre- and postregistration health professions education following the gold standard Cochrane methodology. We searched 7 databases from the year 1990 to August 2017. No language restrictions were applied. We included randomized controlled trials and cluster-randomized trials. We independently selected studies, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias, and then, we compared the information in pairs. We contacted authors of the studies for additional information if necessary. All pooled analyses were based on random-effects models. We used the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluations (GRADE) approach to rate the quality of the body of evidence.
RESULTS: A total of 31 studies (2407 participants) were included. Meta-analysis of 8 studies found that VR slightly improves postintervention knowledge scores when compared with traditional learning (standardized mean difference [SMD]=0.44; 95% CI 0.18-0.69; I2=49%; 603 participants; moderate certainty evidence) or other types of digital education such as online or offline digital education (SMD=0.43; 95% CI 0.07-0.79; I2=78%; 608 participants [8 studies]; low certainty evidence). Another meta-analysis of 4 studies found that VR improves health professionals' cognitive skills when compared with traditional learning (SMD=1.12; 95% CI 0.81-1.43; I2=0%; 235 participants; large effect size; moderate certainty evidence). Two studies compared the effect of VR with other forms of digital education on skills, favoring the VR group (SMD=0.5; 95% CI 0.32-0.69; I2=0%; 467 participants; moderate effect size; low certainty evidence). The findings for attitudes and satisfaction were mixed and inconclusive. None of the studies reported any patient-related outcomes, behavior change, as well as unintended or adverse effects of VR. Overall, the certainty of evidence according to the GRADE criteria ranged from low to moderate. We downgraded our certainty of evidence primarily because of the risk of bias and/or inconsistency.
CONCLUSIONS: We found evidence suggesting that VR improves postintervention knowledge and skills outcomes of health professionals when compared with traditional education or other types of digital education such as online or offline digital education. The findings on other outcomes are limited. Future research should evaluate the effectiveness of immersive and interactive forms of VR and evaluate other outcomes such as attitude, satisfaction, cost-effectiveness, and clinical practice or behavior change.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pharmacist-led academic detailing intervention in primary care: a mixed methods feasibility study.
Abstract: Background Academic detailing is a form of continuing medical education in which a trained health professional such as a physician or pharmacist visits prescribers in their practice to provide evidence-based information. While academic detailing has been adopted in other countries, this strategy is not routinely used in Ireland. Objective The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility and acceptability to General Practitioners (GPs) of a pharmacist-led academic detailing intervention in Ireland. Setting General Practice in County Cork, Ireland. Method A mixed methods feasibility study comprising a pharmacist-led academic detailing intervention on urinary incontinence in older people, quantitative data from patient medical records, and qualitative data from focus groups with GPs. The medical records for all patients aged ≥ 65 years who were attending a participating GP with a diagnosis of urinary incontinence were analysed using a before-after approach. The measures of prescribing assessed before and after the intervention were: LUTS-FORTA criteria, Drug Burden Index, and the Anticholinergic Cognitive Burden scale. Focus groups were carried out with GPs who participated in the academic detailing intervention. Main outcome measure The quantitative prescribing patterns of the GPs and their qualitative responses from the focus groups. Results Twenty-three GPs participated in the academic detailing intervention from a selection of different types of general practice. The medical records of 154 patients were analysed. There was minimal or no change in any of the prescribing measures used. Fourteen GPs attended focus groups. GPs considered the topic of urinary incontinence as relevant to general practice. Participants appreciated the succinct nature of the information in the educational materials but expressed a preference for a more easily retrievable format, such as an online version rather than paper-based. Conclusion This study demonstrated that a pharmacist-led academic detailing intervention was acceptable to GPs in Ireland. Further research is needed in a larger population evaluating the impact and cost effectiveness of academic detailing to optimise patient care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of a Mobile App on Preoperative Patient Preparation for Major Ambulatory Surgery: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Inadequate preoperative patient preparation causes organizational, economic, and emotional problems to patients and professionals. In Spain, no current evidence is available on either the rate of compliance or the impact of good compliance with preoperative recommendations by patients in the ambulatory setting. However, it is known that around 25% of surgical cancellations in the major ambulatory surgery (MAS) are due to poor compliance with these recommendations and, therefore, avoidable. Introducing innovative tools based on mobile health (mHealth) apps may help patients meet the preoperative recommendations and, consequently, reduce the rate of cancellations in the ambulatory setting.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the Listeo+ mHealth app as a tool for improving compliance with preoperative recommendations in MAS versus standard of care (SOC).
METHODS: A multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial that compares SOC with the additional use of Listeo+, a specific mHealth app for MAS preoperative patient monitoring, is being conducted. The study will include patients aged ≥18 years with surgical indication for MAS who meet the necessary technological and connectivity requirements. Patients in the control group will receive written preoperative recommendations, while those in the intervention group will additionally use the Listeo+ mHealth app. There will be a competitive recruitment of 790 patients during 6 months in 4 hospitals in Andalusia (Spain) that belong to the National Health System. The primary efficacy outcome is the level of compliance with preoperative recommendations. Secondary outcomes include the rate of cancellations, associated resource consumption, and perceived usability and utility with Listeo+ by participants of the intervention group. Simple randomization 1:1 procedure will be used to allocate patients to each study group.
RESULTS: The technological development of Listeo+ and the integration and interoperability of information systems was completed in September 2017. Subsequently, simulation tests were performed with Listeo+, and a pilot study was initiated with real patients that concluded successfully in October 2017. Patient recruitment began in December 2017 in the 4 participating centers. After an intermediate analysis performed 10 months after the start of the recruitment phase, the data collection and cleaning phases are estimated to be completed in April 2019, and the analysis with the final results will be conducted in July 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: Progress in the integration and interoperability of information systems represents a major step forward in the field of mHealth. The app will allow health professionals to monitor in real-time patients' preparation and critical preoperative recommendations fulfillment. We expect a reduction in avoidable preoperative cancellations due to a lack of or a poor patient preparation. Self-assessed Web-based questionnaires and focus group will provide important information about the perceived usability and utility of Listeo+ app among patients and health care professionals.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/10938.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health Benefits and Cost-Effectiveness From Promoting Smartphone Apps for Weight Loss: Multistate Life Table Modeling.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Obesity is an important risk factor for many chronic diseases. Mobile health interventions such as smartphone apps can potentially provide a convenient low-cost addition to other obesity reduction strategies.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to estimate the impacts on quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained and health system costs over the remainder of the life span of the New Zealand population (N=4.4 million) for a smartphone app promotion intervention in 1 calendar year (2011) using currently available apps for weight loss.
METHODS: The intervention was a national mass media promotion of selected smartphone apps for weight loss compared with no dedicated promotion. A multistate life table model including 14 body mass index-related diseases was used to estimate QALYs gained and health systems costs. A lifetime horizon, 3% discount rate, and health system perspective were used. The proportion of the target population receiving the intervention (1.36%) was calculated using the best evidence for the proportion who have access to smartphones, are likely to see the mass media campaign promoting the app, are likely to download a weight loss app, and are likely to continue using this app.
RESULTS: In the base-case model, the smartphone app promotion intervention generated 29 QALYs (95% uncertainty interval, UI: 14-52) and cost the health system US $1.6 million (95% UI: 1.1-2.0 million) with the standard download rate. Under plausible assumptions, QALYs increased to 59 (95% UI: 27-107) and costs decreased to US $1.2 million (95% UI: 0.5-1.8) when standard download rates were doubled. Costs per QALY gained were US $53,600 for the standard download rate and US $20,100 when download rates were doubled. On the basis of a threshold of US $30,000 per QALY, this intervention was cost-effective for Māori when the standard download rates were increased by 50% and also for the total population when download rates were doubled.
CONCLUSIONS: In this modeling study, the mass media promotion of a smartphone app for weight loss produced relatively small health gains on a population level and was of borderline cost-effectiveness for the total population. Nevertheless, the scope for this type of intervention may expand with increasing smartphone use, more easy-to-use and effective apps becoming available, and with recommendations to use such apps being integrated into dietary counseling by health workers.
Label Included: 1

Title: Big data in IBD: a look into the future.
Abstract: Big data methodologies, made possible with the increasing generation and availability of digital data and enhanced analytical capabilities, have produced new insights to improve outcomes in many disciplines. Application of big data in the health-care sector is in its early stages, although the potential for leveraging underutilized data to gain a better understanding of disease and improve quality of care is enormous. Owing to the intrinsic characteristics of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and the management dilemmas that it imposes, the implementation of big data research strategies not only can complement current research efforts but also could represent the only way to disentangle the complexity of the disease. In this Review, we explore important potential applications of big data in IBD research, including predictive models of disease course and response to therapy, characterization of disease heterogeneity, drug safety and development, precision medicine and cost-effectiveness of care. We also discuss the strengths and limitations of potential data sources that big data analytics could draw from in the field of IBD, including electronic health records, clinical trial data, e-health applications and genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, metabolomic and microbiomic data.
Label Included: 0

Title: A phase III wait-listed randomised controlled trial of novel targeted inter-professional clinical education intervention to improve cancer patients' reported pain outcomes (The Cancer Pain Assessment (CPAS) Trial): study protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Variations in care models contribute to cancer pain being under-recognised and under-treated in half of all patients with cancer. International and national cancer pain management guidelines are achievable with minimal investment but require practice changes. While much of the cancer pain research over the preceding decades has focused on management interventions, little attention has been given to achieving better adherence to recommended cancer pain guideline screening and assessment practices. This trial aims to reduce unrelieved cancer pain by improving cancer and palliative doctors' and nurses' ('clinicians') pain assessment capabilities through a targeted inter-professional clinical education intervention delivered to participants' mobile devices ('mHealth').
METHODS: A wait-listed, randomised control trial design. Cancer and/or palliative care physicians and nurses employed at one of the six participating sites across Australia will be eligible to participate in this trial and, on enrolment, will be allocated to the active or wait-listed arm. Participants allocated to the active arm will be invited to complete the mHealth cancer pain assessment intervention. In this trial, mHealth is defined as medical or public health practice supported by mobile devices (i.e. phones, patient monitoring devices, personal digital assistants and other wireless devices). This mHealth intervention integrates three evidence-based elements, namely: the COM-B theoretical framework; spaced learning pedagogy; and audit and feedback. This intervention will be delivered via the QStream online platform to participants' mobile devices over four weeks. The trial will determine if a tailored mHealth intervention, targeting clinicians' cancer pain assessment capabilities, is effective in reducing self-reported cancer pain scores, as measured by a Numerical Rating Scale (NRS).
DISCUSSION: If this mHealth intervention is found to be effective, in addition to improving cancer pain assessment practices, it will provide a readily transferable evidence-based framework that could readily be applied to other evidence practice gaps and a scalable intervention that could be administered simultaneously to multiple clinicians across diverse geographical locations. Moreover, if found to be cost-effective, it will help transform clinical continuing professional development. In summary, this mHealth intervention will provide health services with an opportunity to offer an evidence-based, pedagogically robust, cost-effective, scalable training alternative.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR), ACTRN12618001103257 . Registered on 3 July 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Framework to Advance Oncology-Related Telehealth.
Abstract: PURPOSE: As telehealth is increasingly used across the clinical care spectrum to provide patient-centered care, it is important to have robust measures to assess its impact on patient outcomes and care processes. The National Quality Forum (NQF) developed a Telehealth Framework to organize measures and inform target areas for measure development that includes the following four domains: access to care, financial impact or cost, experience, and effectiveness. Our goal is to identify and categorize within the NQF domains currently existing measures of telehealth applicable to oncology to detect priority areas for future research and measure development.
METHODS: We reviewed telehealth-related measures applied to oncology care reported in systematic reviews and identified NQF-endorsed quality measures related to oncology care potentially amenable to telehealth. We organized identified measures by the NQF domains to inform suggestions for advancing the care of patients with cancer through telehealth.
RESULTS: We identified 12 systematic reviews representing 183 studies reporting telehealth-related oncology research. Most studied outcomes related to diagnosis and treatment or user experience and symptom monitoring. Clinical effectiveness measures were most frequently reported (38%), and most were psychosocial. Patient, family, and/or caregiver experience was the next most frequently reported measure. There were only a few other cancer-related clinical effectiveness measures (eg, morbidity). Most NQF-endorsed oncology measures amenable to telehealth applied to the domains of access to care and effectiveness, with a lack of measures informing financial impact or cost and experience.
CONCLUSION: Overall, there has been a lack of quality measures to assess use of telehealth for the care of oncology patients. Future work should focus on developing measures within each of the NQF-identified domains, with special attention to the financial impact or cost domain.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of two online interventions for children and adolescents at risk for depression (E.motion trial): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial within the ProHEAD consortium.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Depression is a serious mental health problem and is common in children and adolescents. Online interventions are promising in overcoming the widespread undertreatment of depression and in improving the help-seeking behavior in children and adolescents.
METHODS: The multicentre, randomized controlled E.motion trial is part of the German ProHEAD consortium (Promoting Help-seeking using E-technology for ADolescents). The objective of the trial is to investigate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of two online interventions to reduce depressive symptomatology in high-risk children and adolescents with subsyndromal symptoms of depression in comparison to an active control group. Participants will be randomized to one of three conditions: (1) Intervention 1, a clinician-guided self-management program (iFightDepression®); (2) Intervention 2, a clinician-guided group chat intervention; and (3) Control intervention, a psycho-educational website on depressive symptoms. Interventions last six weeks. In total, N = 363 children and adolescents aged ≥ 12 years with Patient Health Questionnaire-9 modified for Adolescents (PHQ-A) scores in the range of 5-9 will be recruited at five study sites across Germany. Online questionnaires will be administered before onset of the intervention, at the end of the intervention, and at the six-month follow-up. Further, children and adolescents will participate in the baseline screening and the one- and two-year school-based follow-up assessments integrated in the ProHEAD consortium. The primary endpoint is depression symptomatology at the end of intervention as measured by the PHQ-A score. Secondary outcomes include depression symptomatology at all follow-ups, help-seeking attitudes, and actual face-to-face help-seeking, adherence to and satisfaction with the interventions, depression stigma, and utilization and cost of interventions.
DISCUSSION: This study represents the first randomized controlled trial (RCT) investigating efficacy and cost-effectiveness of two online interventions in children and adolescents aged ≥ 12 years at risk for depression. It aims to provide a better understanding of the help-seeking behavior of children and adolescents, potential benefits of E-mental health interventions for this age group, and new insights into so far understudied aspects of E-mental health programs, such as potential negative effects of online interventions. This knowledge will be used to tailor and improve future help offers and programs for children and adolescents and ways of treatment allocation.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Register for Clinical Trials (DRKS), DRKS00014668 . Registered on 4 May 2018. International trial registration took place through the "international clinical trials registry platform" with the secondary ID S-086/2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: PREDOMOS study, impact of a social intervention program for socially isolated elderly cancer patients: update to the study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Social isolation potentiates the risk of death by cancer in the older cancer patient population. The PREDOMOS study investigates the impact of establishing a Program of Social intervention associated with techniques of Domotic and Remote assistance on the improvement of quality of life of older isolated patients, treated for locally advanced or metastatic cancer. This paper updates the pilot trial protocol.
METHODS/DESIGN: The original protocol was published in Trials, accessible at https://trialsjournal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13063-017-1894-7 . This update reports on the eligibility criteria expansion and on the adjunction of a cost-utility analysis. We widened the eligible population to patients with locally advanced or metastatic cancer including malignant hemopathies (except acute myeloid leukemia) and to patients in the first and second lines of oncologic treatment. We restricted the inclusion to patients with a Mini Mental State Examination score strictly over 24. In addition to the secondary outcomes outlined in the protocol, a medico-economic analysis has been added to evaluate both the health benefits and costs of the two strategies and calculate the incremental cost-utility ratio of the innovative program assessed, compared to the standard practice.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02829762 . Registered on 29 June 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Validation and cost-effectiveness of an in-house dithiothreitol (DTT) treatment protocol for daratumumab patients in a large tertiary care hospital provides gateway for implementation in smaller community hospitals.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment of multiple myeloma with daratumumab (DARA) is increasing fast. Unfortunately, this antibody also attaches to red blood cells (RBCs) and mimics an autoantibody's panreactivity during pre-transfusion testing, necessitating specialized techniques, (e.g. dithiothreitol (DTT)) for alloantibody detection. Many hospitals use a reference lab for such testing, increasing both cost and turn-around time (TAT). Herein, we compare the cost and TAT, pre and post-implementation of an in-house DTT protocol.
METHODS: We designed a validation of our in-house DTT protocol from Nov to Dec 2017 with full implementation on January 1, 2018. We retrospectively reviewed all pre-transfusion tests on DARA patients from Feb 2016 to April 2018, pre and post-implementation of in-house DTT testing. Descriptive statistics were used for patient demographics and a Student t-test was used to compare cost and TATs (pre and post-implementation).
RESULTS: We identified 49 patients on DARA treatment requiring transfusion. Samples from these patients were sent to the reference lab 104 times and were tested in-house 28 times. The average TAT for the reference lab was 19h25 m compared to our in-house TAT of 5h9m (an average time-savings of 14h16 m). We spent approximately $33,800 ($325 per test) for 104 reference lab samples versus $806.12 (˜$28.79 per test) for in-house testing of 28 samples.
CONCLUSION: We provide an easily implementable DTT protocol for pre-transfusion testing community hospitals and beyond. As more monoclonal antibodies are developed and approved for clinical use, the lessons learned with DARA will expand to deal with interference from future targeted therapies.
Label Included: 0

Title: TAQIH, a tool for tabular data quality assessment and improvement in the context of health data.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Data curation is a tedious task but of paramount relevance for data analytics and more specially in the health context where data-driven decisions must be extremely accurate. The ambition of TAQIH is to support non-technical users on 1) the exploratory data analysis (EDA) process of tabular health data, and 2) the assessment and improvement of its quality.
METHODS: A web-based tool has been implemented with a simple yet powerful visual interface. First, it provides interfaces to understand the dataset, to gain the understanding of the content, structure and distribution. Then, it provides data visualization and improvement utilities for the data quality dimensions of completeness, accuracy, redundancy and readability.
RESULTS: It has been applied in two different scenarios. (1) The Northern Ireland General Practitioners (GPs) Prescription Data, an open data set containing drug prescriptions. (2) A glucose monitoring tele health system dataset. Findings on (1) include: Features that had significant amount of missing values (e.g. AMP_NM variable 53.39%); instances that have high percentage of variable values missing (e.g. 0.21% of the instances with > 75% of missing values); highly correlated variables (e.g. Gross and Actual cost almost completely correlated (∼ + 1.0)). Findings on (2) include: Features that had significant amount of missing values (e.g. patient height, weight and body mass index (BMI) (> 70%), date of diagnosis 13%)); highly correlated variables (e.g. height, weight and BMI). Full detail of the testing and insights related to findings are reported.
CONCLUSIONS: TAQIH enables and supports users to carry out EDA on tabular health data and to assess and improve its quality. Having the layout of the application menu arranged sequentially as the conventional EDA pipeline helps following a consistent analysis process. The general description of the dataset and features section is very useful for the first overview of the dataset. The missing value heatmap is also very helpful in visually identifying correlations among missing values. The correlations section has proved to be supportive as a preliminary step before further data analysis pipelines, as well as the outliers section. Finally, the data quality section provides a quantitative value to the dataset improvements.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementation of Value Based Breast Cancer Care.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Adding value of care to patients is crucial for all stakeholders. The use of both provider and patient reported outcome data was implemented in a single academic breast cancer center. We describe the development of the outcomes set, data integration within electronical health records (EHR) and clinical use.
METHODS: An Integrated Practice Unit (IPU) was constructed providing the full care cycle for breast cancer patients. Provider reported outcomes and patient reported outcomes (PROs) were defined, reflecting the entire cycle of care and long-term sustainability of quality of life. Multidisciplinary provider and patient perspectives were obtained via focus groups and surveys. Patient pathways were redesigned in order to identify suitable opportunities for data collection during the entire care cycle.
RESULTS: A Standard Set for Breast Cancer Outcomes together with case-mix variables and timelines was agreed upon within the IPU. A secure electronic platform, directly linked to the EHR, was designed to measure PROs during the outpatient phase. First year evaluation showed a decrease of response rates over time, from 83.3% at baseline to 45.2% at 12 months after surgery. Patients reacted positively to the use of PROMs in daily clinical cancer care.
CONCLUSION: Assessment of patient reported as well as provider reported outcomes was implemented within our standard of breast cancer care. For this, dedicated resources, change of culture and practice, and improved knowledge and awareness about Value-based healthcare (VBHC) were essential. Our proposed framework aims to serve as a blueprint for implementation of VBHC in daily care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Measurement of health-related quality by multimorbidity groups in primary health care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy in Western societies does not necessarily mean better quality of life. To improve resources management, management systems have been set up in health systems to stratify patients according to morbidity, such as Clinical Risk Groups (CRG). The main objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of multimorbidity on health-related quality of life (HRQL) in primary care.
METHODS: An observational cross-sectional study, based on a representative random sample (n = 306) of adults from a health district (N = 32,667) in east Spain (Valencian Community), was conducted in 2013. Multimorbidity was measured by stratifying the population with the CRG system into nine mean health statuses (MHS). HRQL was assessed by EQ-5D dimensions and the EQ Visual Analogue Scale (EQ VAS). The effect of the CRG system, age and gender on the utility value and VAS was analysed by multiple linear regression. A predictive analysis was run by binary logistic regression with all the sample groups classified according to the CRG system into the five HRQL dimensions by taking the "healthy" group as a reference. Multivariate logistic regression studied the joint influence of the nine CRG system MHS, age and gender on the five EQ-5D dimensions.
RESULTS: Of the 306 subjects, 165 were female (mean age of 53). The most affected dimension was pain/discomfort (53%), followed by anxiety/depression (42%). The EQ-5D utility value and EQ VAS progressively lowered for the MHS with higher morbidity, except for MHS 6, more affected in the five dimensions, save self-care, which exceeded MHS 7 patients who were older, and MHS 8 and 9 patients, whose condition was more serious. The CRG system alone was the variable that best explained health problems in HRQL with 17%, which rose to 21% when associated with female gender. Age explained only 4%.
CONCLUSIONS: This work demonstrates that the multimorbidity groups obtained by the CRG classification system can be used as an overall indicator of HRQL. These utility values can be employed for health policy decisions based on cost-effectiveness to estimate incremental quality-adjusted life years (QALY) with routinely e-health data. Patients under 65 years with multimorbidity perceived worse HRQL than older patients or disease severity. Knowledge of multimorbidity with a stronger impact can help primary healthcare doctors to pay attention to these population groups.
Label Included: 0

Title: Electronic Visits For Common Acute Conditions: Evaluation Of A Recently Established Program.
Abstract: Asynchronous interactions between patients and providers through patient portals (called e-visits in this article) have the potential to increase access to care and reduce the time requirements for some office visits. We performed a retrospective chart review for nonemergent acute care of adults in the period December 2015-July 2017 at the Medical University of South Carolina. Most patients in the 1,565 e-visits were female (80.2 percent) and ages 18-44 (55.3 percent). Sinus problems (38.1 percent) were the most common complaint. There were some unresolved e-visits (6.4 percent), with patients ages sixty-five and older and those with diarrhea or skin problems having a higher likelihood of their e-visit being unresolved, compared to other groups. The majority (81.5 percent) of in-person follow-ups did not result in diagnosis changes. More than 90 percent of the 665 patients surveyed after an e-visit reported a positive experience. Most patients (92 percent) reported that the e-visit had replaced an in-person visit. Further evaluation of the factors associated with unresolved visits could guide the development of treatment algorithms that could improve the quality of care in, and the cost-effectiveness of, e-visits for acute common conditions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Advancement Of Teledentistry At The University Of Rochester's Eastman Institute For Oral Health.
Abstract: Dental caries is the most prevalent infectious disease among US children. National surveys have shown that poor and minority-group children are not only disproportionately affected by dental caries but also have limited access to oral health care. Following successful exploratory applications of both synchronous and asynchronous models at the Eastman Institute for Oral Health, teledentistry has been demonstrated to be a practical and cost-effective way to improve oral health care for rural and disadvantaged children. These models support the role of teledentistry in reducing the costs of and barriers to accessing oral health care, improving oral health outcomes, increasing use of oral health care resources, and leading to the establishment of a dental home for underserved children. The advancement of teledentistry underscores the need for its integration with local, regional, and national telehealth programs and the role of policy makers in establishing a balanced framework for teledentistry within the overarching health care system.
Label Included: 0

Title: A comparative analysis of treatment costs for home-based care and hospital-based care in enteral nutrition patients: A retrospective analysis of claims data.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To explore the differences in mean treatment costs between home-based care and hospital-based care in enteral nutrition patients in Japan.
METHODS: Using claims data from September 2013 to August 2014, we analyzed patients with recorded reimbursements for enteral nutrition at home or in a hospital. Treatment costs were compared using a panel data analysis with an individual fixed effects model that adjusted for the number of comorbidities and fiscal year. Costs were compared for all patients, as well as for specific diseases (pneumonia, sequelae of cerebrovascular disease, and dementia).
RESULTS: The study sample comprised 7,783 patients with a cumulative total of 33,751 person-months of data. The mean patient age was 84.4 years for home-based care, 83.7 years for hospital-based care. The panel data analysis found that the cost estimates for hospital-based care were consistently higher than those for home-based care; the difference in adjusted treatment costs were $4,894 for all patients, $5,315 for pneumonia patients, $4,481 for sequelae of cerebrovascular disease patients, and $4,519 for dementia patients (all P < 0.001). Hospital-based care was still more expensive even when long-term care services were included in home-based care treatment cost estimates.
CONCLUSION: Home-based care was consistently and substantially cheaper than hospital-based care in enteral nutrition patients in Japan.
Label Included: 0

Title: The safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the Maxm Skate, a lower limb rehabilitation device for use following total knee arthroplasty: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Physical rehabilitation is required to enhance functional outcomes and overall recovery following total knee arthroplasty (TKA). However, there are no universally accepted clinical guidelines available to consistently structure rehabilitation for TKA patients. A common method is rehabilitation provided in an outpatient setting, on a one-to-one treatment basis. This method is resource-intensive and outcomes must be compared to less costly alternatives such as home-based rehabilitation. The current study will analyse a novel home-based rehabilitation program. The Maxm skate is a portable, lower-limb, postoperative, rehabilitation exercise device for individual use in a hospital or home-based setting. This study was developed to compare the safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the Maxm Skate rehabilitation program to standard rehabilitative care following TKA. The primary outcome is the range of motion (ROM) achieved by patients who received the Maxm Skate program compared to standard care at three months post TKA. Secondary outcomes include patient-reported outcomes, costs and functional evaluations which will be collected at multiple time-points up to 12 months after TKA.
METHODS: This is a single-blinded, randomised controlled trial (RCT) in which 116 eligible participants consented for primary TKA will be randomly allocated to receive either the Maxm Skate rehabilitation program or standard rehabilitative care. Fifty-eight participants per group will provide 90% power (α = 0.05) to detect 10° of difference in ROM between groups at three months after TKA, assuming a within-group standard deviation of 16° and allowing for 5% loss to follow-up. Participants randomised to the Maxm Skate group will use the skate device and accompanying iOS App and sensors to complete rehabilitation exercises, as outlined in the Maxm Skate Rehabilitation Guide. Outcomes will be compared to those receiving standard rehabilitative care. A blinded physiotherapist will evaluate functional outcomes preoperatively and at 2, 4, 6, 12, 26 and 52 weeks after TKA. The functional assessment will include measures of knee ROM, pain, isometric knee strength, balance and knee/thigh circumference. Limited measures will also be assessed at day 2 postoperatively by an alternate, unblinded physiotherapist. Clinical outcome measures will be administered preoperatively and at 6, 12 and 52 weeks postoperatively. An economic evaluation will be conducted and participants will be screened for adverse event occurrences from the time of consent to 12 months postoperatively.
DISCUSSION: This RCT will be the first to investigate the safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the home-based Maxm Skate Rehabilitation program, in comparison to standard rehabilitative care following primary TKA.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, ACTRN12616001081404p . Registered on 11 August 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Self-reported and routinely collected electronic healthcare resource-use data for trial-based economic evaluations: the current state of play in England and considerations for the future.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) are generally regarded as the "gold standard" for providing quantifiable evidence around the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of new healthcare technologies. In order to perform the economic evaluations associated with RCTs, there is a need for accessible and good quality resource-use data; for the purpose of discussion here, data that best reflect the care received. Traditionally, researchers have developed questionnaires for resource-use data collection. However, the evolution of routinely collected electronic data within care services provides new opportunities for collecting data without burdening patients or caregivers (e.g. clinicians). This paper describes the potential strengths and limitations of each data collection method and then discusses aspects for consideration before choosing which method to use.
MAIN TEXT: We describe electronic data sources (large observational datasets, commissioning data, and raw data extraction) that may be suitable data sources for informing clinical trials and the current status of self-reported instruments for measuring resource-use. We assess the methodological risks and benefits, and compare the two methodologies. We focus on healthcare resource-use; however, many of the considerations have relevance to clinical questions. Patient self-report forms a pragmatic and cheap method that is largely under the control of the researcher. However, there are known issues with the validity of the data collected, loss to follow-up may be high, and questionnaires suffer from missing data. Routinely collected electronic data may be more accurate and more practical if large numbers of patients are involved. However, datasets often incur a cost and researchers are bound by the time for data approval and extraction by the data holders.
CONCLUSIONS: Owing to the issues associated with electronic datasets, self-reported methods may currently be the preferred option. However, electronic hospital data are relatively more accessible, informative, standardised, and reliable. Therefore in trials where secondary care constitutes a major driver of patient care, detailed electronic data may be considered superior to self-reported methods; with the caveat of requiring data sharing agreements with third party providers and potentially time-consuming extraction periods. Self-reported methods will still be required when a 'societal' perspective (e.g. quantifying informal care) is desirable for the intended analysis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth Impact on Primary Care Related Ambulance Transports.
Abstract: Introduction: Telehealth has been used nominally for trauma, neurological, and cardiovascular incidents in prehospital emergency medical services (EMS). Yet, much less is known about the use of telehealth for low-acuity primary care. We examine the development of one telehealth program and its impact on unnecessary ambulance transports. Objective: The objective of this study is to describe the development and impact of a large-scale telehealth program on ambulance transports. Methods: We describe the patient characteristics and results from a cohort of patients in Houston, Texas who received a prehospital telehealth consultation from an emergency medicine physician. Inclusion criteria were adults and pediatric patients with complaints considered to be non-urgent, primary care related. Data were analyzed for 36 months, from January 2015 through December 2017. Our primary dependent variable was the percentage of patients transported by ambulance. We used descriptive statistics to describe patient demographics, chi-square to examine differences between groups, and logistic regression to explore the effects with multivariate controls including age, gender, race, and chief complaint. Results: A total of 15,067 patients were enrolled (53% female; average age 44 years ± 19 years) over the three-year period. The 3 primary chief complaints were based on abdominal pains (13% of cases), nausea/vomiting/diarrhea (NVD) (9.4%), and back pain (9.3%). Ambulance transports represented 11.2% of all transports in the program, while alternative taxi transportation was used in 75.6%, and the remainder were self- or no-transports. Taxi transportation to an alternate, affiliated clinic (versus ED) was utilized in 5% of incidents. After multivariate controls, older age patients presenting with low-risk, non-acute chest pain, shortness of breath, and dizziness were much more likely to use ambulance transport. Race and gender were not significant predictors of ambulance transport. Conclusions: We found telehealth offers a technology strategy to address potentially unnecessary ambulance transports. Based on prior cost-effectiveness analyses, the reduction of unnecessary ambulance transports translates to an overall reduction in EMS agency costs. Telehealth programs offer a viable solution to support alternate destination and alternate transport programs.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Oncology Hospital at Home.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Wellbeing intervention for chronic kidney disease (WICKD): a randomised controlled trial study protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Incidence of end stage kidney disease (ESKD) for Indigenous Australians is especially high in remote and very remote areas of Australia (18 and 20 times the rate of comparable non-Indigenous people). Relocating away from family and country for treatment, adjusting to life with a chronic condition and time lost to dialysis cause grief and sadness which have immense impact on quality of life and challenges treatment adherence. We describe the first randomised controlled trial to address both chronic disease and mental health in Indigenous people with ESKD, which is the first to test the effectiveness of a culturally adapted e-mental health intervention in this population. It builds on an existing program of mental health research with demonstrated efficacy - the Aboriginal and Islander Mental Health Initiative (AIMhi) - to test the newly developed electronic motivational care planning (MCP) therapy - the AIMhi Stay Strong App.
METHODS: This is a 3-arm, waitlist, single-blind randomised controlled trial testing the efficacy of the Stay Strong App in improving psychological distress, depressive symptoms, quality of life and treatment adherence among Indigenous clients undergoing haemodialysis for ESKD in Alice Springs and Darwin with follow up over two periods of 3 months (total of 6 months observation). The study compares the efficacy of MCP using the AIMhi Stay Strong App with two control groups (control app intervention and treatment as usual) on participant-reported psychological distress (the primary outcome) using the Kessler Distress Scale (K10); depressive symptoms using the adapted Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9); quality of life using the EuroQoL instrument (EQ5D) and adherence to dialysis treatment planning through file audit. Participants are randomised to receive MCP either at baseline (early treatment) or after 3 months (delayed treatment). The study also examines the cost effectiveness of this therapy in this setting through examination of health care service utilisation across groups during the first 3 months.
DISCUSSION: This project will contribute much needed evidence on the efficacy of an electronic wellbeing intervention for Indigenous people with ESKD - a group in which distress is likely to be unacceptably high, yet relatively untreated.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry; ACTRN12617000249358 ; Date registered: 17/02/2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Multidisciplinary Approach to Alzheimer's Disease and Dementia. A Narrative Review of Non-Pharmacological Treatment.
Abstract: Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia are chronic diseases with progressive deterioration of cognition, function, and behavior leading to severe disability and death. The prevalence of AD and dementia is constantly increasing because of the progressive aging of the population. These conditions represent a considerable challenge to patients, their family and caregivers, and the health system, because of the considerable need for resources allocation. There is no disease modifying intervention for AD and dementia, and the symptomatic pharmacological treatments has limited efficacy and considerable side effects. Non-pharmacological treatment (NPT), which includes a wide range of approaches and techniques, may play a role in the treatment of AD and dementia. Aim: To review, with a narrative approach, current evidence on main NPTs for AD and dementia. Methods: PubMed and the Cochrane database of systematic reviews were searched for studies written in English and published from 2000 to 2018. The bibliography of the main articles was checked to detect other relevant papers. Results: The role of NPT has been largely explored in AD and dementia. The main NPT types, which were reviewed here, include exercise and motor rehabilitation, cognitive rehabilitation, NPT for behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia, occupational therapy, psychological therapy, complementary and alternative medicine, and new technologies, including information and communication technologies, assistive technology and domotics, virtual reality, gaming, and telemedicine. We also summarized the role of NPT to address caregivers' burden. Conclusions: Although NPT is often applied in the multidisciplinary approach to AD and dementia, supporting evidence for their use is still preliminary. Some studies showed statistically significant effect of NPT on some outcomes, but their clinical significance is uncertain. Well-designed randomized controlled trials with innovative designs are needed to explore the efficacy of NPT in AD and dementia. Further studies are required to offer robust neurobiological grounds for the effect of NPT, and to examine its cost-efficacy profile in patients with dementia.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Impact of the Great Recession on Long-Term Services and Supports in the United States and England.
Abstract: The Great Recession substantially affected most developed countries. How countries responded to the Great Recession varied greatly, especially in terms of public spending. We examine the impact of the Great Recession on long-term services and supports (LTSS) in the United States and England. Financing for LTSS in these two countries differs in important ways; by examining the two countries' financing and program structures, we learn how these factors influenced each country's response to this common external stimulus. We find that between 2006 and 2013, LTSS increased in the United States in terms of spending (17%) and number of people served; in contrast, over the same period, LTSS in England decreased in terms of spending (6%) and people served. We find that the use of earmarked LTSS funding in the United States, compared to non-earmarked funding in England, contributed to different trajectories for LTSS in the two countries. Other contributing factors included differences in service entitlements, variations in ability of state and local governments to tax, and larger macroeconomic strategies implemented to combat the recession. We analyze the implications of our findings, especially as related to the potential shift to Medicaid block grant LTSS funding in the United States.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health Economic Evaluations of Digital Health Interventions for Secondary Prevention in Stroke Patients: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the first 5 years after their stroke, about a quarter of patients will suffer from a recurrent stroke. Digital health interventions facilitating interactions between a caregiver and a patient from a distance are a promising approach to improve patient adherence to lifestyle changes proposed by secondary prevention guidelines. Many of these interventions are not implemented in daily practice, even though efficacy has been shown. One of the reasons can be the lack of clear economic incentives for implementation. We propose to map all health economic evidence regarding digital health interventions for secondary stroke prevention.
SUMMARY: We performed a systematic search according to PRISMA-P guidelines and searched on PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane, and National Institute for Health Research Economic Evaluation Database. Only digital health interventions for secondary prevention in stroke patients were included and all study designs and health economic outcomes were accepted. We combined the terms "Stroke OR Cardiovascular," "Secondary prevention," "Digital health interventions," and "Cost" in one search string using the AND operator. The search performed on April 20, 2017 yielded 163 records of which 26 duplicates were removed. After abstract screening, 20 articles were retained for full-text analysis, of which none reported any health economic evidence that could be included for analysis or discussion. Key Messages: There is a lack of evidence on health economic outcomes on digital health interventions for secondary stroke prevention. Future research in this area should take health economics into consideration when designing a trial and there is a clear need for health economic evidence and models.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital Health Strategies to Improve Care and Continuity Within Stroke Systems of Care in the United States.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: The Use of Smartphone Applications (Apps) for Enhancing Communication With Surgical Patients: A Systematic Review of the Literature.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The widespread use and development of smartphones and mHealth apps has the potential to overcome communication deficiencies in health care.
OBJECTIVE: To carry out a literature review of studies that evaluate patients' experience on the use of perioperative mHealth apps.
METHODS: An up-to-date systematic review on studies assessing patients' use of mHealth apps for communicating with the health care team in the perioperative period was performed following the PRISMA statement.
RESULTS: Ten studies (in 11 articles) were identified: 8 feasibility studies and 2 randomized controlled trials. Nine studies included apps used for postoperative monitoring while 1 study also provided preoperative guidance.
DISCUSSION: An analysis of barriers and motivations of patients and health care professionals to the use of perioperative mHealth apps was performed. Barriers included patients' lack of confidence when using apps and potential lack of time from health care professionals to monitor information submitted by patients. Motivations included patients' sense of being looked after and potential cost-effectiveness and increased efficiency of health care services. This analysis led to the concept of the "ideal app" that would need to be developed following adequate protocols and security standards. Features of the ideal app include preoperative advice on medications and investigations, information on surgery, and a remote follow-up tool to improve safety and to minimize unnecessary clinic appointments and associated costs.
CONCLUSION: There is an overall positive impression of the use of perioperative mHealth apps. However, further studies are required to assess the impact that they have on patients' care and healthcare professional services.
Label Included: 0

Title: An economic evaluation of a telephone outcall intervention for informal carers of cancer patients in Australia: An assessment of costs and quality-adjusted-life-years.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Carers of people with cancer provide uncompensated care that is often physically, emotionally, and financially demanding, which results in neglect of their own health. This study's objective was to conduct an economic evaluation following a randomised control trial (RCT) involving a proactive telephone outcall intervention aimed at improving health outcomes among carers of cancer patients.
METHODS: The trial was a single-blind, multicentre, RCT conducted across four Australian health services, comprising three outcalls from trained Cancer Council 131120 (Cancer Council telephone and information support services) nurses compared with three phone call reminders of the availability of 131120 services (control group). Outcalls consisted of telephone contacts to the caregivers initiated by the Cancer Council nurses. The primary trial outcome was reduced carer burden. Health care resource use was measured using a resource use questionnaire (RUQ), and costs were presented in 2013 $(AUS). Quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs) were also used as health outcomes. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated, with bootstrapping used to quantify sampling variability. A $50 000 per QALY-gained willingness-to-pay threshold was used. Sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Results showed that the total mean QALYs-gained were higher (0.02 QALYs, P = 0.01) in the control group, and total mean costs were lower in the control group ($477, P < 0.001) over the trial duration. The intervention group was dominated by the control group. Results were robust to sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest policy makers should not adopt this intervention into routine health care in its current form. Further research into the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of telephone-based interventions for carers is required.
Label Included: 0

Title: Estimating the additional costs per life saved due to transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a secondary data analysis of electronic health records in Germany.
Abstract: Aortic stenosis (AS) is the most common valvular heart disease, with a dismal prognosis when untreated. Recommended therapy is surgical (SAVR) or transcatheter (TAVR) aortic valve replacement. Based on a retrospective cohort of isolated SAVR and TAVR procedures performed in Germany in 2015 (N = 17,826), we examine the impact of treatment selection on in-hospital mortality and total in-hospital costs for a variety of at-risk populations. Since patients were not randomized to the two treatment options, the two endpoints in-hospital mortality and reimbursement are analyzed using logistic and linear regression models with 20 predefined patient characteristics as potential confounders. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated as a ratio of the risk-adjusted reimbursement and mortality differences with 95% confidence intervals obtained by Fieller's theorem. Our study shows that TF-TAVR is more costly that SAVR and that cost differences between the procedures vary little between patient groups. Results regarding in-hospital mortality are mixed. SAVR is the predominant procedure among younger patients. For patients older than 85 years or at intermediate and higher pre-operative risk TF-TAVR seems to be the treatment of choice. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) are most favorable for patients older than 85 years (ICER €154,839, 95% CI €89,163-€302,862), followed by patients at higher pre-operative risk (ICER €413,745, 95% CI €258,027-€952,273). A hypothetical shift from SAVR towards TF-TAVR among patients at intermediate pre-operative risk is associated with a less favorable ICER (€1,486,118, 95% CI €764,732-€23,692,323), as the risk-adjusted mortality benefit is relatively small (- 0.97% point), while the additional reimbursement is still eminent (+€14,464). From a German healthcare system payer's perspective, the additional costs per life saved due to TAVR are most favorable for patients older than 85 and/or at higher pre-operative risk.
Label Included: 0

Title: RESPONSE TO ON THE COSTS OF HOME-BASED TELEMEDICINE PROGRAMS: A COMMENT ON MICHAUD ET AL.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: ON THE COSTS OF HOME-BASED TELEMEDICINE PROGRAMS: A COMMENT ON MICHAUD ET AL.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Multi-centre randomised controlled trial of a smart phone-based event recorder alongside standard care versus standard care for patients presenting to the Emergency Department with palpitations and pre-syncope - the IPED (Investigation of Palpitations in the ED) study: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Palpitations and pre-syncope are together responsible for 300,000 annual Emergency Department (ED) attendances in the United Kingdom (UK). Diagnosis of the underlying rhythm is difficult as many patients are fully recovered on ED arrival; and examination and presenting electrocardiogram (ECG) are commonly normal. The only way to establish the underlying heart rhythm is to capture an ECG during symptoms. Recent technology advances have led to several novel ECG monitoring devices appearing on the market. This trial aims to compare the symptomatic rhythm detection rate at 90 days of one such smart phone-based event recorder (AliveCor Heart Monitor and AliveECG) with standard care for participants presenting to the ED with palpitations and pre-syncope and no obvious cause in the ED.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a multi-centre hospital ED / Acute Medical Unit (AMU) open label, randomised controlled trial. Participants will be recruited in 10 tertiary and district general hospitals in the UK. Participants aged ≥ 16 years presenting with an episode of palpitations or pre-syncope with no obvious cause and whose underlying ECG rhythm during these episodes remains undiagnosed after clinical assessment will be included. Participants will be randomised to either: (1) the intervention arm, standard care plus the use of a smart phone-based event recorder; or (2) the control arm, standard care. Primary endpoint will be symptomatic rhythm detection rate at 90 days. A number of secondary clinical, process and cost-effectiveness endpoints will be collected and analysed. Analysis will be on an intention-to-treat basis.
DISCUSSION: The Investigation of Palpitations in the ED (IPED) study aims to recruit 242 participants across 10 hospital sites. It will be the first study to investigate the ability of a smart phone-based event recorder to detect symptomatic cardiac rhythms compared to standard care for ED patients with palpitations and pre-syncope with no obvious cause in the ED. This smart phone event recorder will allow ED patients who have presented with palpitations or pre-syncope to record their ECG tracing if they have a further episode and may increase the rate of underlying rhythm diagnosis.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02783898 . Registered on 26 May 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Diabetes Health Coaching Randomized Controlled Trial: Rationale, Design and Baseline Characteristics of Adults Living With Type 2 Diabetes.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The Diabetes Health Coaching Trial was a single-blind, randomized controlled trial designed to evaluate the effect of a 1-year telephone-based diabetes health-coaching intervention for community-dwelling adults living with type 2 diabetes mellitus. It concerned glycated hemoglobin levels, self-care behaviours and cost-effectiveness. The purpose of this article is to describe the rationale, design and participants' characteristics.
METHODS: The eligibility criteria were: 1) adults ≥18 years of age; 2) a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes; 3) glycated hemoglobin levels of ≥7.5% 6 months before randomization; 4) the ability to read, write and understand English; and 5) having telephone access. Participants were randomized to either usual diabetes education or diabetes education plus diabetes health coaching.
RESULTS: From May 2016 to December 2017, 365 participants were randomized into the trial. At baseline, the mean age was 57.9 (11.78) years, the mean duration of diabetes was 8.69 (8.54) years, the mean glycated hemoglobin level was 8.98 (1.58) %, and the mean body mass index was 35.03 (8.07) kg/m2.
CONCLUSIONS: The baseline characteristics of the participants were equally distributed across the intervention and control groups. The Diabetes Health Coaching Trial is in a position to evaluate a potential treatment alternative and approach for type 2 diabetes and examined the effect of the intervention on clinical outcomes, self-care behaviours and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Adaptive Antiretroviral Therapy Adherence Interventions for Youth Living With HIV Through Text Message and Cell Phone Support With and Without Incentives: Protocol for a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Youth living with HIV (YLH) aged 13 to 24 years made up over a fifth (21%) of new HIV diagnoses in 2016, yet only 27% of YLH are virally suppressed. YLH have been shown to be poorly adherent to antiretroviral therapy (ART); however, there has been limited research investigating how to increase adherence in YLH. Mobile health (mHealth) interventions may be one promising way to do this.
OBJECTIVE: This study (ATN [Adolescent Trials Network] 144 SMART) aimed to compare adaptive interventions that could increase ART adherence in YLH aged 15 to 24 years. This includes mHealth initiatives, the tapering of interventions, and the use of incentives. Cost-effectiveness of sequencing the interventions without incentives before providing incentives and the savings on societal costs due to suppressed viral loads will be determined. This protocol is part of the ATN Scale It Up program described in this issue by Naar et al.
METHODS: This study uses a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial design. Approximately 190 participants are being recruited, enrolled, and randomized to either cell phone support or text message support. Both intervention groups receive 3 months of intervention, followed by a second randomization based on response to the intervention. Responders test tapering their intervention, and nonresponders test receiving incentives.
RESULTS: Data collection for this study is projected to begin in August 2018 and last until June 2020.
CONCLUSIONS: This is an innovative study, particularly in terms of population, intervention types, focus on cost-effectiveness, and recruitment. This study could be particularly effective in improving adherence in YLH while reducing long-term individual and societal costs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03535337; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03535337 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/74alXb92z).
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): PRR1-10.2196/11183.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pharmacist-led hypertension management combined with blood pressure telemonitoring in a primary care setting may be cost-effective in high-risk patients.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of home blood pressure telemonitoring and case management in the secondary prevention of cerebrovascular disease in Canada.
Abstract: Home blood pressure (BP) telemonitoring and pharmacist case management reduce BP, but cost-effectiveness assessments are mixed. We examined the incremental cost-effectiveness of this intervention vs usual care in Canadians with cerebrovascular disease. A Markov decision model cost-utility analysis examining community-residing, high-risk patients with a recent nondisabling cerebrovascular event was created. A lifetime time horizon and health care payer perspective were used. Achieved BP, future cardiovascular risks, and attendant consequences on quality-adjusted life years and Canadian dollar costs were modeled. BP telemonitoring was assumed to occur for 3 months, then quarterly. Life tables were used to determine overall mortality, adjusted by cardiovascular disease mortality. Relative efficacies of intervention-associated BP lowering, resource use, and costs were obtained from Canadian published literature. Reduction in systolic BP of 9.7 mmHg was used in the base case; subsequently, robust sensitivity analyses were conducted. The results showed that, over the lifetime horizon, telemonitoring with case management led to net health care savings of $1929 Canadian and increased per-patient QALYs by 0.83. These findings were robust to sensitivity analysis, with the intervention remaining dominant or highly cost-effective. Increasing telemonitoring costs by 50% still resulted in the intervention being dominant; if the costs of telemonitoring plus case management were 2-3 times base case cost, incremental cost-effectiveness was $1200-$4700 per quality-adjusted life year gained. In conclusion, home BP telemonitoring and pharmacist case management poststroke lowered costs and improved QALYs. Strategies and funding for broad implementation of this dominant strategy should be implemented.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Tele-Video-Consultation for the Neuro-Surgical Emergency Management at the General Hospitals in Italy.
Abstract: Background: Neuro-surgical emergencies are serious (long-term disability and high mortality) and costly to the national health services. Tele-medicine intervention can facilitate to reduce this gap. Our study aims to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of tele-video-consultation intervention for the management of neuro-surgical emergencies in the general hospitals. Methods: We retrieved health service data from the tele-consultation service, online tele-medicine database portal and hospital patient registry, between January 2009 and December 2012 and evaluated cost-effectiveness of the tele-video-consultation intervention from an Italian National Health Service perspective. Results: Seventy-five percent of the tele-consultations were completed within 15 min and 90% within 30 min. The average costs were €2,326 in the intervention group and €4,173 in the care as usual group. The intervention avoided 73% potential transfer (saving of 139,916 km travel distance during a 4-years period). The incremental cost-saving per transfer avoided from the tele-medicine intervention was €365. Conclusions: Tele-medicine intervention could be worth investing from the Italian National Health Service perspective.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telerehabilitation in individuals with severe acquired brain injury: Rationale, study design, and methodology.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Severe acquired brain injury (SABI) rehabilitation should be as intensive and long as to allow the patients get the best independence and quality of life (QoL), but facing with the rehabilitation socioeconomic burden. Telerehabilitation (TR) could supply frail subjects requiring long-term rehabilitation.
METHODS: A multicenter, prospective, parallel design, single-blind trial will be conducted at the IRCCS Neurolesi Bonino Pulejo (Messina, Italy) and IRCCS Hospital San Camillo (Venice, Italy) involving patients suffering from SABI and requiring home motor and cognitive rehabilitation. We will investigate the use of TR, based on advanced Information and Communication Technology (ICT) solutions, taking into account that the supervision of rehabilitation at home will be enriched with the counseling and vital parameters monitoring. The enrolled patients will be balanced for pathology, and randomized in 2 groups, performing TR (G1) or standard rehabilitation training (G2), respectively, according to a pc-generated random assignment. TR will be delivered by means of an advanced video-conferencing system, whereas the patient will be provided with low-cost monitoring devices, able to collect data about his/her health status and QoL. In both the groups each treatment (either cognitive or motor, or both as per patient functional status) will last about 1 hour a day, 5 days/week, for 12 weeks. Two structured telephone interviews will be administered to the patients (when possible) and/or their caregivers, and to all the healthcare professionals involved in the patient management, 1 week after the beginning and at the end of the TR. All the patients will undergo a complete neurological and cognitive examination performed by skilled physicians and psychologists, blindly. Clinical evaluations will be administered blindly, before and after the treatments.
RESULTS: the data of this study should demonstrate that TR is at least non-inferior in comparison with the same amount of usual territorial rehabilitative physical treatments, taking into account patients' functional recovery, psychological well-being, caregiver burden, and healthcare costs.
CONCLUSION: data coming from this study could demonstrate the usefulness of TR in facing the rehabilitation socioeconomic burden of managing patients with SABI, so to allow the patients get the best independence and quality of life (QoL).
Label Included: 0

Title: Diabetes Care and Management Using Electronic Medical Records: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Diabetes treatment and management provide a unique opportunity for examination of the effectiveness of electronic health records (EHRs) on patient health outcomes, continuity of care, and areas for further development. This systematic literature review was designed to identify the strengths and limitations of EHR and opportunities for improvement proposed in original research and recent rigorous systematic reviews.
METHODS: This review utilized methodology adapted from PRISMA. Inclusion criteria for original research were published between March 2003 and November 2017; included randomized controlled trial design with participants ≥18 years of age with diabetes diagnosis ≥1 year; measured outcomes included HbA1c, blood pressure, and LDL cholesterol levels. Criteria for systematic reviews included research focused on EHR outcomes, improvement of care for patients with diabetes, prevention of adverse outcomes, web-based communication, and limitations of EHR regarding chronic disease management. Thirteen articles qualified for inclusion.
RESULTS: Meta-synthesis of articles suggests that chronic disease patients benefit most by decision support tools that alert physicians of drug interactions, communication tools that keep them informed and engaged in their treatment regimens and detailed reporting and tracking designed to inform progress. Collective results suggest that EHR technology is advancing rapidly; however, patient outcomes documented via EHR systems remain largely unknown.
CONCLUSION: A fertile area for inquiry designed to enhance patient outcomes in diabetes and chronic disease management is determining how EHR systems can be utilized for new drug and treatment options in addition to enhancing the quality, cost-effectiveness, and continuity of care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine for screening diabetic retinopathy: The NO BLIND Italian multicenter study.
Abstract: AIMS: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) represents the main cause of blindness among adults in the industrialized Countries. Use of telemedicine could offer an easy, smart specialist fundus oculi examination, as well as putting in a screening programme many patients who otherwise would be excluded.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The NO BLIND is a transversal, multicentre, observational study. Its pilot phase involved nine public outpatient clinics for 6 months. As endpoint of the study, we assessed the prevalence of DR by retinography in a subset of the Italian population. Patients' fundus oculi photos were performed by trained diabetologists through a digital smart ophthalmoscope.
RESULTS: According to our endpoint, in the final study population (n = 1461), obtained excluding patients for whom retinography was not able to provide any diagnosis, DR prevalence was equal to 15.5%. According to the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve performed, we can observe how retinography appears a highly accurate method to detect DR (AUROC 0.971, 95% confidence interval, 0.954-0.989), with a specificity of the 100% and a sensitivity of the 94.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings, in an Italian setting, confirm main data in the literature about DR prevalence. Hence, telemedicine could represent an accurate, fast, and cheap method for screening of DR.
Label Included: 0

Title: Standardized Cost Estimates for Home Visiting: Pilot Study of the Home Visiting Budget Assistance Tool (HV-BAT).
Abstract: Purpose Using a standardized approach and metrics to estimate home visiting costs across multiple evidence-based models and regions could improve the consistency and accuracy of cost estimates, allow stakeholders to observe trends in cost allocation, analyze how home visiting costs vary, and develop future program budgets. Between October 2015 and December 2018, we developed and pilot-tested the Home Visiting Budget Assistance Tool (HV-BAT) to standardize the collection of home visiting program costs and analyze costs for local implementing agencies (LIAs). Methods We recruited LIAs that implemented at least one of nine evidence-based home visiting models in 15 states implementing the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV) Program. LIAs reported their costs to implement a home visiting model using the HV-BAT and provided feedback on the tool. We estimated annual total cost and cost per family served for each LIA, examined cost summary statistics for the sample, and analyzed whether and how LIA characteristics affected home visiting costs using regression analyses. Results Of the 168 LIAs invited to participate in the HV-BAT pilot study, 75 agreed to participate, and 45 across 14 states completed the HV-BAT. We estimated home visiting costs of approximately $8500 per family per year, but costs varied across LIAs (range $1970-$39,770; standard deviation = $5794). The marginal cost of adding a family declined as the number of families served by an LIA increased. Feedback from LIAs indicated that users had difficulty providing some details on costs (e.g., mileage for specific services), needed more detailed instructions, and desired a summary of subtotals and total costs reported in the HV-BAT. Conclusions The HV-BAT provides an approach to standardize cost data collection for home visiting programs. Pilot study results indicate that there may be significant economies of scale for home visiting services. This study provides preliminary estimates of costs that can help in program planning and budgeting.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital pathology is a practical alternative to on-site intraoperative frozen section diagnosis in thoracic surgery.
Abstract: AIMS: Telepathology uses digitised image transfer to allow off-site reporting of histopathology slides. This technology could facilitate the centralisation of pathology services, which may improve their quality and cost-effectiveness. The benefits may be most apparent in frozen section reporting, in which turnaround times (TATs) are vital. We moved from on-site to off-site telepathology reporting of thoracic surgery frozen section specimens in 2016. The aim of this study was to compare TATs before and after this service change.
METHODS AND RESULTS: All thoracic frozen section specimens analysed 4 months prior and 4 months following the service change were included. Demographics, operation, sample type, time taken from theatre, time received by laboratory, time reported by laboratory, TAT, frozen section diagnosis, final histopathological diagnosis and final TNM staging were recorded. The results were analysed with spss statistical software version 24. In total, there were 65 samples from 59 patients; 34 before the change and 31 after the change. Specimens included 51 lung, six lymph node, three bronchial, three chest wall and two pleural biopsies. Before the change, the median TAT was 25 min [interquartile range (IQR) 20-33 min]. No diagnoses were deferred. No diagnoses were changed on subsequent paraffin analysis. After the change, with the use of digital pathology, the median TAT was 27.5 min (IQR 21.75-38.5 min). This difference was not significant (P = 0.581). Diagnosis was deferred in one case (3.23%). There was one (3.23%) mid-case technical failure resulting in the sample having to be transported by courier, resulting in a TAT of 106 min. No diagnoses were changed on subsequent paraffin analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in reporting times between digital technology and an on-site service, although one sample was affected by a technical failure requiring physical transportation of the specimen for analysis. Our study was underpowered to detect differences in accuracy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Relative Cost Effectiveness of In-Person and Internet Interventions for Relationship Distress.
Abstract: While the efficacy of couple therapy has been repeatedly demonstrated, most distressed couples do not seek treatment. To improve reach and overcome barriers to therapy, Integrative Behavioral Couple Therapy (IBCT) was translated into a web-based program, OurRelationship (OR). While both IBCT and OR have been shown to improve relationship and individual functioning, the goal of the present study was to compare the relative cost effectiveness of these two treatment modalities. In IBCT, 74% of couples experienced reliable improvement, compared to 55% of couples in OR. Within-group Cohen's d effect sizes during treatment for relationship satisfaction were d = 0.87 for IBCT and d = 0.96 for OR. Relative cost effectiveness analyses revealed that even at the highest expense estimates for OR and the lowest expense estimates for IBCT, OR was more cost effective in creating reliable improvement once at least 229 couples were served and was more cost effective in creating large-size effects once at least 153 couples were served. Cost-effectiveness increases for both IBCT and OR as more couples are served; however, this cost savings occurs at a much more rapid rate for OR. These findings demonstrate that despite higher initial development costs, Internet programs are a cost-effective option for dissemination either as a stand-alone service or as an initial intervention in a stepped care model with more intensive in-person services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in heart failure-more than nice to have?
Abstract: Telemedicine in chronic diseases like heart failure is rapidly evolving and has two important goals: improving and individualising care as well as reducing costs. In this paper, we provide a critical and an updated review of the current evidence by discussing the most important trials, meta-analyses and systematic reviews. So far, evidence for the CardioMEMS device is most convincing. Other trials regarding invasive and non-invasive telemonitoring and telephone support show divergent results, but several meta-analyses and systematic reviews uniformly reported a beneficial effect. Voice-over systems and ECG monitoring had neutral results. Lack of direct comparison between different modalities makes it impossible to determine the most effective method. Dutch studies showed predominantly non-significant results, mainly due to underpowered studies or because of a high standard of usual care. There are no conclusive results on cost-effectiveness of telemedicine because of the above shortcomings. The adherence of elderly patients was good in the trials, being essential for the compliance of telemedicine in the entire heart failure population. In the future perspective, telemedicine should be better standardised and evolve to be more than an addition to standard care to improve care and reduce costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth in Plastic Surgery: A Veterans Affairs Hospital Perspective.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine is a rapidly growing tool since its invention in the 1950s. Recently, it has expanded to the field of plastic surgery. In the Connecticut VA System, there is 1 plastic surgeon at a central location for the state of Connecticut and southern Massachusetts. Our aim was to pilot a telehealth program for plastic surgery consultation within the VA to improve access to subspecialty care. We intend to discuss the value of telehealth as part of consultation services, and assess patient attitudes toward telemedicine.
METHODS: Patients in the Connecticut VA System referred for plastic surgery consultation for evaluation of nonurgent diagnoses, such as skin lesions, carpal tunnel syndrome, and chronic wounds, were invited to participate. After being appropriately consented according to Connecticut state law, patients completed a postvisit questionnaire rating their overall satisfaction, quality of interaction, and ability to communicate using a modified 10-point Likert scale. Means were calculated for numerical responses. Preference for future telehealth visits was reported as a percentage.
RESULTS: Forty-one of 44 eligible patients elected to participate. Of those patients, 83% (n = 34) stated they prefer telemedicine services for future visits. Patients rated overall satisfaction 9.2/10, overall quality of interaction 9.2/10, ability to communicate 9.3/10, and sound and video quality 8.6/10 and 9.0/10, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Remote video telemedicine is a feasible method of plastic surgery consultation and results in high patient satisfaction. Further studies should focus on cost-effectiveness and ways to broaden the use of telehealth services in plastic surgery.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Utility Analysis of Home-Based Telerehabilitation Compared With Centre-Based Rehabilitation in Patients With Heart Failure.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Whilst home-based telerehabilitation has been shown non-inferior to traditional centre-based rehabilitation in patients with chronic heart failure, its economic sustainability remains unknown. This study aimed to investigate the cost-utility of a home-based telerehabilitation program.
METHODS: A comparative, trial-based, incremental cost-utility analysis was conducted from a health care provider's perspective. We collected data as part of a multi-centre, two-arm, non-inferiority, randomised controlled trial with 6 months follow-up. There were 53 participants randomised to either a telerehabilitation program (consisting of 12 weeks of group-based exercise and education delivered into the home via online videoconferencing) or a traditional centre-based program. Health care costs (including personnel, equipment and hospital readmissions due to heart failure) were extracted from health system records, and calculated in Australian dollars using 2013 as the base year. Health utilities were measured using the EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) questionnaire. Estimates were presented as means and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) based on bootstrapping. Costs and utility differences were plotted on a cost-effectiveness plane.
RESULTS: Total health care costs per participant were significantly lower in the telerehabilitation group (-$1,590, 95% CI: -2,822, -359) during the 6 months. No significant differences in quality-adjusted life years (0, 95% CI: -0.06, 0.05) were seen between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Heart failure telerehabilitation appears to be less costly and as effective for the health care provider as traditional centre-based rehabilitation.
Label Included: 0

Title: [9th Jesús Culebras Lecture: "The value of clinical nutrition"].
Abstract: The word "value" encompasses different concepts but it is probably the importance we give to something and its usefulness that best brings us conceptually closer to its meaning. In this text we analyze the reasons why it is necessary to value the usefulness of nutritional therapy. The development of a new discipline, Nutrition Economics, should help us to create value in Clinical Nutrition by incorporating economic evaluation into their research. It also reviews the importance of economic analysis in decision-making and in more detail the very useful tools also used in the field of nutrition economics, such as cost-of-disease studies, cost-effectiveness studies and budget impact. We analyze different works that have allowed us to advance in these fields in recent years. Finally, the difficulties related to the financing of nutrition in the centers as well as the regulation of enteral nutrition in the home are analyzed. The creation of value in clinical nutrition is a task for everyone (healthcare professionals, patients, managers and the pharmaceutical industry).
Label Included: 0

Title: Teledermatology for diagnosing skin cancer in adults.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Early accurate detection of all skin cancer types is essential to guide appropriate management and to improve morbidity and survival. Melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) are high-risk skin cancers which have the potential to metastasise and ultimately lead to death, whereas basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is usually localised with potential to infiltrate and damage surrounding tissue. Anxiety around missing early curable cases needs to be balanced against inappropriate referral and unnecessary excision of benign lesions. Teledermatology provides a way for generalist clinicians to access the opinion of a specialist dermatologist for skin lesions that they consider to be suspicious without referring the patients through the normal referral pathway. Teledermatology consultations can be 'store-and-forward' with electronic digital images of a lesion sent to a dermatologist for review at a later time, or can be live and interactive consultations using videoconferencing to connect the patient, referrer and dermatologist in real time.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of teledermatology for the detection of any skin cancer (melanoma, BCC or cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC)) in adults, and to compare its accuracy with that of in-person diagnosis.
SEARCH METHODS: We undertook a comprehensive search of the following databases from inception up to August 2016: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, CPCI, Zetoc, Science Citation Index, US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register, NIHR Clinical Research Network Portfolio Database and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We studied reference lists and published systematic review articles.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Studies evaluating skin cancer diagnosis for teledermatology alone, or in comparison with face-to-face diagnosis by a specialist clinician, compared with a reference standard of histological confirmation or clinical follow-up and expert opinion. We also included studies evaluating the referral accuracy of teledermatology compared with a reference standard of face-to-face diagnosis by a specialist clinician.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted all data using a standardised data extraction and quality assessment form (based on QUADAS-2). We contacted authors of included studies where there were information related to the target condition of any skin cancer missing. Data permitting, we estimated summary sensitivities and specificities using the bivariate hierarchical model. Due to the scarcity of data, we undertook no covariate investigations for this review. For illustrative purposes, we plotted estimates of sensitivity and specificity on coupled forest plots for diagnostic threshold and target condition under consideration.
MAIN RESULTS: The review included 22 studies reporting diagnostic accuracy data for 4057 lesions and 879 malignant cases (16 studies) and referral accuracy data for reported data for 1449 lesions and 270 'positive' cases as determined by the reference standard face-to-face decision (six studies). Methodological quality was variable with poor reporting hindering assessment. The overall risk of bias was high or unclear for participant selection, reference standard, and participant flow and timing in at least half of all studies; the majority were at low risk of bias for the index test. The applicability of study findings were of high or unclear concern for most studies in all domains assessed due to the recruitment of participants from secondary care settings or specialist clinics rather than from primary or community-based settings in which teledermatology is more likely to be used and due to the acquisition of lesion images by dermatologists or in specialist imaging units rather than by primary care clinicians.Seven studies provided data for the primary target condition of any skin cancer (1588 lesions and 638 malignancies). For the correct diagnosis of lesions as malignant using photographic images, summary sensitivity was 94.9% (95% confidence interval (CI) 90.1% to 97.4%) and summary specificity was 84.3% (95% CI 48.5% to 96.8%) (from four studies). Individual study estimates using dermoscopic images or a combination of photographic and dermoscopic images generally suggested similarly high sensitivities with highly variable specificities. Limited comparative data suggested similar diagnostic accuracy between teledermatology assessment and in-person diagnosis by a dermatologist; however, data were too scarce to draw firm conclusions. For the detection of invasive melanoma or atypical intraepidermal melanocytic variants both sensitivities and specificities were more variable. Sensitivities ranged from 59% (95% CI 42% to 74%) to 100% (95% CI 48% to 100%) and specificities from 30% (95% CI 22% to 40%) to 100% (95% CI 93% to 100%), with reported diagnostic thresholds including the correct diagnosis of melanoma, classification of lesions as 'atypical' or 'typical, and the decision to refer or to excise a lesion.Referral accuracy data comparing teledermatology against a face-to-face reference standard suggested good agreement for lesions considered to require some positive action by face-to-face assessment (sensitivities of over 90%). For lesions considered of less concern when assessed face-to-face (e.g. for lesions not recommended for excision or referral), agreement was more variable with teledermatology specificities ranging from 57% (95% CI 39% to 73%) to 100% (95% CI 86% to 100%), suggesting that remote assessment is more likely recommend excision, referral or follow-up compared to in-person decisions.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Studies were generally small and heterogeneous and methodological quality was difficult to judge due to poor reporting. Bearing in mind concerns regarding the applicability of study participants and of lesion image acquisition in specialist settings, our results suggest that teledermatology can correctly identify the majority of malignant lesions. Using a more widely defined threshold to identify 'possibly' malignant cases or lesions that should be considered for excision is likely to appropriately triage those lesions requiring face-to-face assessment by a specialist. Despite the increasing use of teledermatology on an international level, the evidence base to support its ability to accurately diagnose lesions and to triage lesions from primary to secondary care is lacking and further prospective and pragmatic evaluation is needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of a Comprehensive Approach for Hypertension Control in Low-Income Settings in Argentina: Trial-Based Analysis of the Hypertension Control Program in Argentina.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A recent cluster randomized trial evaluating a multicomponent intervention showed significant reductions in blood pressure in low-income hypertensive subjects in Argentina.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of this intervention.
METHODS: A total of 1432 hypertensive participants were recruited from 18 primary health care centers. The intervention included home visits led by community health workers, physician education, and text messaging. Resource use and quality of life data using the three-level EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire were prospectively collected. The study perspective was that of the public health care system, and the time horizon was 18 months. Intention-to-treat analysis was used to analyze cost and health outcomes (systolic blood pressure [SBP] change and quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]). A 1 time gross domestic product per capita per QALY was used as the cost-effectiveness threshold (US $14,062).
RESULTS: Baseline characteristics were similar in the two arms. QALYs significantly increased by 0.06 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.04-0.09) in the intervention group, and SBP net difference favored the intervention group: 5.3 mm Hg (95% CI 0.27-10.34). Mean total costs per participant were higher in the intervention arm: US $304 in the intervention group and US $154 in the control group (adjusted difference of US $140.18; 95% CI US $75.41-US $204.94). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $3299 per QALY (95% credible interval 1635-6099) and US $26 per mm Hg of SBP (95% credible interval 13-46). Subgroup analysis showed that the intervention was cost-effective in all prespecified subgroups (age, sex, cardiovascular risk, and body mass index).
CONCLUSIONS: The multicomponent intervention was cost-effective for blood pressure control among low-income hypertensive patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical and Cost Effectiveness of Online Cognitive Behavioral Therapy in Children With Functional Abdominal Pain Disorders.
Abstract: BACKGROUND & AIMS: Scalable and effective treatments are needed for children with functional abdominal pain disorders (FAPDs). We performed a randomized controlled trial of the efficacy and cost effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy delivered online (Internet-CBT) compared with usual therapy.
METHODS: We studied children (age, 8-12 y) diagnosed with FAPDs, based on the Rome IV criteria, in Sweden from September 2016 through April 2017. The patients were assigned randomly to groups that received 10 weeks of therapist-guided, internet-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy (Internet-CBT, n = 46) or treatment as usual (treatments within the health care and school systems, including medications and visits to doctors and other health care professionals; n = 44). The primary outcome was global child-rated gastrointestinal symptom severity assessed using the Pediatric Quality of Life Gastrointestinal Symptom scale. All outcomes were collected from September 2016 through January 2018. Secondary outcomes included quality of life, gastrointestinal-specific anxiety, avoidance behaviors, and parental responses to children's symptoms. Societal costs and costs for health care consumption were collected during the treatment.
RESULTS: Children who received Internet-CBT had a significantly larger improvement in gastrointestinal symptom severity with a medium effect size (Cohen's d = 0.46; 95% CI, 0.05-0.88; number needed to treat, 3.8) compared with children who received the treatment as usual. The children's quality of life, gastrointestinal-specific anxiety, avoidance behaviors, and parental responses to children's symptoms also improved significantly in the Internet-CBT group compared with the treatment as usual group. The effects of Internet-CBT persisted through 36 weeks of follow-up evaluation. Children who received Internet-CBT had significantly less health care use than children who received treatment as usual, with an average cost difference of US $137 (P = .011). We calculated a cost savings of US $1050 for every child treated with Internet-CBT compared with treatment as usual.
CONCLUSIONS: In a randomized trial of pediatric patients with FAPDs, we found Internet-CBT to be clinically cost effective compared with treatment as usual. Internet-CBT has the potential to increase the availability of treatment for a number of patients and reduce health care costs. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02873078.
Label Included: 0

Title: A discrete-choice experiment to assess treatment modality preferences of patients with depression.
Abstract: AIMS: There is an increasing interest in understanding patients' preferences in the area of healthcare decision-making to better match treatment with patients' preferences and improve treatment uptake and adherence. The aim of this study was to elicit the preferences of patients with a depressive disorder regarding treatment modalities.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a discrete-choice experiment, patients chose repetitively between two hypothetical depression treatments that varied in four treatment attributes: waiting time until the start of treatment, treatment intensity, level of digitalization, and group size. A Bayesian-efficient design was used to develop 12 choice sets, and patients' preferences and preference variation was estimated using a random parameters logit model.
RESULTS: A total of 165 patients with depression completed the survey. Patients preferred short (over long) waiting times, face-to-face (over digital) treatment, individual (over group) treatment, and one session per week over two sessions per week or one session per 2 weeks. Patients disfavoured digital treatment and treatment in a large group. Waiting time and treatment intensity were substantially less important attributes to patients than face-to-face (vs digital) and group size. Significant variation in preferences was observed for each attribute, and sub-group analyses revealed that these differences were in part related to education.
LIMITATIONS: The convenience sample over-represented the female and younger population, limiting generalizability. Limited information on background characteristics limited the possibilities to explore preference heterogeneity.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated how different treatment components for depression affect patients' preferences for those treatments. There is significant variation in treatment preferences, even after accounting for education. Incorporating individual patients' preferences into treatment decisions could potentially lead to improved adherence of treatments for depressive disorders.
Label Included: 0

Title: A discrete-choice experiment to assess treatment modality preferences of patients with anxiety disorder.
Abstract: AIMS: The aim of this study was to elicit the preference of patients with an anxiety disorder regarding treatment modalities. Understanding patients' preferences could help optimize treatment uptake and adherence to therapeutic interventions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A discrete-choice experiment was used to elicit patients' preferences with regard to four treatment characteristics: waiting time until first treatment, intensity of treatment, face-to-face vs digital treatment, and group size. In 12 choice sets, participants were asked to choose between two treatment alternatives. A random parameters logit model was used to analyse the data.
RESULTS: A total of 126 participants, aged 18 years and older, currently or in the previous year in treatment for an anxiety disorder, completed the survey. Respondents preferred short (over long) waiting times, face-to-face (over digital) treatment, individual (over group) treatment and a treatment intensity of one session per week rather than two sessions per week or one session every two weeks. Waiting time and treatment intensity were substantially less important to patients than level of digitalization and group size. Heterogeneity in preference was significant for each attribute, and sub-group analyses revealed this was partly related to education level and age.
LIMITATIONS: The convenience sample over-represented the female and younger population, limiting generalizability. Limited information on background characteristics limited the possibilities to explore preference heterogeneity.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated how different treatment components for anxiety disorders affect patients' preferences for those treatments. There is significant variation in treatment preferences, even after accounting for age and education. Incorporating patients' preferences into treatment decisions could potentially lead to improved adherence of treatments for anxiety disorders.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical effectiveness, cost effectiveness and acceptability of community-based treatment of hepatitis C virus infection: A mixed method systematic review.
Abstract: Several community-based models for treating hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection have been implemented to improve treatment accessibility and health outcomes. However, there is a lack of knowledge regarding how well these models achieve the desired goals. We conducted a mixed-method systematic review of quantitative and qualitative evidence about clinical effectiveness, cost effectiveness and acceptability of community-based HCV treatment models. Seventeen databases were researched for published and unpublished studies. Methodological quality was assessed using The Joanna Briggs Institute Critical Appraisal tools. Quantitative findings were synthesized in narrative form and qualitative findings were synthesized using meta-synthesis. Forty-two quantitative and six qualitative studies were included. No relevant cost effectiveness studies were found. Five categories of community-based models were identified: telehealth, integration of HCV and addiction services, integration of HCV and HIV services, integration of HCV and primary care, and implementation by a home care and health care management company. The range of reported outcomes included; end of treatment response: 48.7% to 96%, serious side effects: 3.3% to 27.8%, sustained virological response: 22.3% to 95.5%, relapse: 2.2% to 16.7%, and treatment completion: 33.4% to 100%. Inconsistent measures of uptake and adherence were used; uptake ranged from 8.3% to 92%, and 68.4% to 100% of patients received ≥80% of prescribed doses. Patient reported experiences included trusted and supportive care providers, safe and trusted services, easily accessible care, and positive psychological and behavioural changes. The clinical effectiveness and acceptability reported from the included studies are similar to or better than reported outcomes from systematic reviews of studies in tertiary settings. Studies of the cost effectiveness of community-based models for treating HCV are needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Analysis of a Three-Arm RCT Exploring the Delivery of Intensive, Prophylactic Swallowing Therapy to Patients with Head and Neck Cancer During (Chemo)Radiotherapy.
Abstract: Research advocates for the use of intensive, prophylactic swallowing therapy to help reduce the severity of dysphagia in patients receiving (chemo)radiotherapy ([C]RT) for head/neck cancer (HNC). Unfortunately, the intensity of this therapy, coupled with growing patient numbers and limited clinical resources, provides challenges to many international cancer facilities. Telepractice has been proposed as a potential method to provide patients with greater support in home-practice, whilst minimising burden to the health service. This study investigated the clinical and patient-attributable costs of delivering an intensive, prophylactic swallowing therapy protocol via a new telepractice application "SwallowIT" as compared to clinician-directed FTF therapy and independent patient self-directed therapy. Patients (n = 79) with oropharyngeal HNC receiving definitive (C)RT were randomised to receive therapy via a: clinician-directed (n = 26), patient-directed (n = 27), or SwallowIT-assisted (n = 26) model of care. Data pertaining to health service costs (service time, consumables, therapy resources), patient-attributable costs (travel and wages) and patient-reported health-related quality of life (QoL) (AQoL-6D) were collected. SwallowIT provided a cost-efficient model of care when compared to the clinician-directed model, with significant cost savings to both the health service and to HNC consumers (total saving of $1901.10 AUD per patient; p < 0.001). The SwallowIT model also proved more cost-effective than the patient-directed model, yielding clinically significantly superior QoL at the end of (C)RT, for comparable costs. Overall, when compared to the alternate methods of service-delivery, SwallowIT provided a financially viable and cost-effective method for the delivery of intensive, prophylactic swallowing therapy to patients with HNC during (C)RT.
Label Included: 0

Title: Accessibility and Applicability of Currently Available e-Mental Health Programs for Depression for People With Poststroke Aphasia: Scoping Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Depression affects approximately 60% of people with aphasia 1 year post stroke and is associated with disability, lower quality of life, and mortality. Web-delivered mental health (e-mental health) programs are effective, convenient, and cost-effective for the general population and thus are increasingly used in the management of depression. However, it is unknown if such services are applicable and communicatively accessible to people with poststroke aphasia.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to identify freely available e-mental health programs for depression and determine their applicability and accessibility for people with poststroke aphasia.
METHODS: A Web-based search was conducted to identify and review freely available e-mental health programs for depression. These programs were then evaluated in terms of their (1) general features via a general evaluation tool, (2) communicative accessibility for people with aphasia via an aphasia-specific communicative accessibility evaluation tool, and (3) empirical evidence for the general population and stroke survivors with and without aphasia. The program that met the most general evaluation criteria and aphasia-specific communicative accessibility evaluation criteria was then trialed by a small subgroup of people with poststroke aphasia.
RESULTS: A total of 8 programs were identified. Of these, 4 had published evidence in support of their efficacy for use within the general population. However, no empirical evidence was identified that specifically supported any programs' use for stroke survivors with or without aphasia. One evidence-based program scored at least 80% (16/19 and 16/20, respectively) on both the general and aphasia-specific communicative accessibility evaluation tools and was subject to a preliminary trial by 3 people with poststroke aphasia. During this trial, participants were either unable to independently use the program or gave it low usability scores on a post-trial satisfaction survey. On this basis, further evaluation was considered unwarranted.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite fulfilling majority of the general evaluation and aphasia-specific evaluation criteria, the highest rated program was still found to be unsuitable for people with poststroke aphasia. Thus, e-mental health programs require substantial redevelopment if they are likely to be useful to people with poststroke aphasia.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Internet of Things in Health Care in Oxford: Protocol for Proof-of-Concept Projects.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Demands on health services across are increasing because of the combined challenges of an expanding and aging population, alongside complex comorbidities that transcend the classical boundaries of modern health care. Continuing to provide and coordinate care in the current manner is not a viable route to sustain the improvements in health outcomes observed in recent history. To ensure that there continues to be improvement in patient care, prevention of disease, and reduced burden on health systems, it is essential that we adapt our models of delivery. Providers of health and social care are evolving to face these pressures by changing the way they think about the care system and, importantly, how to involve patients in the planning and delivery of services.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper is to provide (1) an overview of the current state of Internet of Things (IoT) and key implementation considerations, (2) key use cases demonstrating technology capabilities, (3) an overview of the landscape for health care IoT use in Oxford, and (4) recommendations for promoting the IoT via collaborations between higher education institutions and industry proof-of-concept (PoC) projects.
METHODS: This study describes the PoC projects that will be created to explore cost-effectiveness, clinical efficacy, and user adoption of Internet of Medical Things systems. The projects will focus on 3 areas: (1) bring your own device integration, (2) chronic disease management, and (3) personal health records.
RESULTS: This study is funded by Research England's Connecting Capability Fund. The study started in March 2018, and results are expected by the end of 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: Embracing digital solutions to support the evolution and transformation of health services is essential. Importantly, this should not simply be undertaken by providers in isolation. It must embrace and exploit the advances being seen in the consumer devices, national rollout of high-speed broadband services, and the rapidly expanding medical device industry centered on mobile and wearable technologies. Oxford University Hospitals and its partner providers, patients, and stakeholders are building on their leading position as an exemplar site for digital maturity in the National Health Service to implement and evaluate technologies and solutions that will capitalize on the IoT. Although early in the application to health, the IoT and the potential it provides to make the patient a partner at the center of decisions about care represent an exciting opportunity. If achieved, a fully connected and interoperable health care environment will enable continuous acquisition and real-time analysis of patient data, offering unprecedented ability to monitor patients, manage disease, and potentially deliver early diagnosis. The clinical benefit of this is clear, but additional patient benefit and value will be gained from being able to provide expert care at home or close to home.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/12077.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Practical Do-It-Yourself Recruitment Framework for Concurrent eHealth Clinical Trials: Identification of Efficient and Cost-Effective Methods for Decision Making (Part 2).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The ability to successfully recruit participants for electronic health (eHealth) clinical trials is largely dependent on the use of efficient and effective recruitment strategies. Determining which types of recruitment strategies to use presents a challenge for many researchers.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to present an analysis of the time-efficiency and cost-effectiveness of recruitment strategies for eHealth clinical trials, and it describes a framework for cost-effective trial recruitment.
METHODS: Participants were recruited for one of 5 eHealth trials of interventions for common mental health conditions. A multipronged recruitment approach was used, including digital (eg, social media and Craigslist), research registry-based, print (eg, flyers and posters on public transportation), clinic-based (eg, a general internal medicine clinic within an academic medical center and a large nonprofit health care organization), a market research recruitment firm, and traditional media strategies (eg, newspaper and television coverage in response to press releases). The time costs and fees for each recruitment method were calculated, and the participant yield on recruitment costs was calculated by dividing the number of enrolled participants by the total cost for each method.
RESULTS: A total of 777 participants were enrolled across all trials. Digital recruitment strategies yielded the largest number of participants across the 5 clinical trials and represented 34.0% (264/777) of the total enrolled participants. Registry-based recruitment strategies were in second place by enrolling 28.0% (217/777) of the total enrolled participants across trials. Research registry-based recruitment had a relatively high conversion rate from potential participants who contacted our center for being screened to be enrolled, and it was also the most cost-effective for enrolling participants in this set of clinical trials with a total cost per person enrolled at US $8.99.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of these results, a framework is proposed for participant recruitment. To make decisions on initiating and maintaining different types of recruitment strategies, the resources available and requirements of the research study (or studies) need to be carefully examined.
Label Included: 0

Title: Analysis of a clinical pathway for home enteral nutrition in the Region of Murcia. Consumption and associated expenses and adaptation to the National Health System Guide.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To analyze the compliance with the Guide for home enteral nutrition (HEN) of the Spanish national health system of the prescriptions made in a specific area (Health Area I of the Region of Murcia) before and after implementation of a clinical pathway based on that guide, and to compare the changes in healthcare costs of diet therapy during the 2007-2014 period in the Regional and National Health system.
METHOD: A descriptive study to quantify compliance with the main criteria of the HEN guide before (2010) and after (2013-2014) implementation of the clinical pathway. Changes in health expenditure and consumption during the 2007-2014 period were also analyzed.
RESULTS: All markers of compliance with the national HEN guide improved after implementation of the clinical pathway. In addition, Murcia has one of the Spanish lowest expenditures per population, below the national average.
CONCLUSION: The clinical pathway implemented improves compliance with the national guide of prescriptions to patients in the Region of Murcia while containing health resources expenditure and consumption, thus making diet therapy prescription more sustainable.
Label Included: 0

Title: Bathing adaptations in the homes of older adults (BATH-OUT): results of a feasibility randomised controlled trial (RCT).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Housing adaptations have been identified as an important environmental and prevention intervention for older adults, which may improve health and quality of life. The onset of disability in bathing can act as a warning for further disability in other activities and may therefore be a judicious time-point for intervention. The aim of this study was to determine the feasibility of conducting a Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) of bathing adaptations, to evaluate whether they improve older adults' perceived health status and quality of life, prevent further functional deterioration, and reduce the use of other health and social care resources. This study was conducted in preparation for a powered RCT.
METHOD: Eligibility criteria were aged > 65 and referred to local authority housing adaptations service for an accessible flush-floor shower. Participants were randomised to either usual adaptations (3-4 month wait) or immediate adaptations (no wait). Outcomes were assessed at 3, 6 and 9 months and included perceived physical and mental health status, health and social care related quality of life, independence in activities of daily living (ADL) and bathing, and falls. Data on costs and the use of health and social care resources were collected during follow-up in order to inform a definitive health economic evaluation.
RESULTS: Sixty participants were recruited and randomised, 31 to immediate adaptations and 29 to waiting list control. Mean age was 77(SD8), 58% women and 58% living alone. Follow-ups were completed with 90, 85 and 72% at 3, 6 and 9 months respectively. Adaptations were delivered to 65% of participants within the requisite timescales as there were delays with some privately owned properties. There were improvements from baseline in both groups on all outcome measures following the completion of the adaptations.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first RCT of housing adaptations in the UK. We demonstrated the feasibility of using a waiting list control, subject to minor alterations to the timescales for privately owned properties. A powered trial would evaluate the impact on older adults' quality of life and investigate the impact of waiting times on functional outcomes and health and care resource use.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN14876332 Registered 12 July 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Predicting diabetes-related hospitalizations based on electronic health records.
Abstract: Objective: To derive a predictive model to identify patients likely to be hospitalized during the following year due to complications attributed to Type II diabetes. Methods: A variety of supervised machine learning classification methods were tested and a new method that discovers hidden patient clusters in the positive class (hospitalized) was developed while, at the same time, sparse linear support vector machine classifiers were derived to separate positive samples from the negative ones (non-hospitalized). The convergence of the new method was established and theoretical guarantees were proved on how the classifiers it produces generalize to a test set not seen during training. Results: The methods were tested on a large set of patients from the Boston Medical Center - the largest safety net hospital in New England. It is found that our new joint clustering/classification method achieves an accuracy of 89% (measured in terms of area under the ROC Curve) and yields informative clusters which can help interpret the classification results, thus increasing the trust of physicians to the algorithmic output and providing some guidance towards preventive measures. While it is possible to increase accuracy to 92% with other methods, this comes with increased computational cost and lack of interpretability. The analysis shows that even a modest probability of preventive actions being effective (more than 19%) suffices to generate significant hospital care savings. Conclusions: Predictive models are proposed that can help avert hospitalizations, improve health outcomes and drastically reduce hospital expenditures. The scope for savings is significant as it has been estimated that in the USA alone, about $5.8 billion are spent each year on diabetes-related hospitalizations that could be prevented.
Label Included: 0

Title: Testing a behavioral intervention to improve adherence to adjuvant endocrine therapy (AET).
Abstract: Adjuvant endocrine therapy (AET) is used to prevent recurrence and reduce mortality for women with hormone receptor positive breast cancer. Poor adherence to AET is a significant problem and contributes to increased medical costs and mortality. A variety of problematic symptoms associated with AET are related to non-adherence and early discontinuation of treatment. The goal of this study is to test a novel, telephone-based coping skills training that teaches patients adherence skills and techniques for coping with problematic symptoms (CST-AET). Adherence to AET will be assessed in real-time for 18 months using wireless smart pill bottles. Symptom interference (i.e., pain, vasomotor symptoms, sleep problems, vaginal dryness) and cost-effectiveness of the intervention protocol will be examined as secondary outcomes. Participants (N = 400) will be recruited from a tertiary care medical center or community clinics in medically underserved or rural areas. Participants will be randomized to receive CST-AET or a general health education intervention (comparison condition). CST-AET includes ten nurse-delivered calls delivered over 6 months. CST-AET provides systematic training in coping skills for managing symptoms that interfere with adherence. Interactive voice messaging provides reinforcement for skills use and adherence that is tailored based on real-time adherence data from the wireless smart pill bottles. Given the high rates of non-adherence and recent recommendations that women remain on AET for 10 years, we describe a timely trial. If effective, the CST-AET protocol may not only reduce the burden of AET use but also lead to cost-effective changes in clinical care and improve breast cancer outcomes. Trials registration: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02707471, registered 3/3/2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Application and Effectiveness of Telehealth to Support Severe Mental Illness Management: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People with severe mental illness (SMI) must receive early interventions to prevent mental health deterioration or relapse. Telecommunications and other technologies are increasingly being used to assist in health care delivery using "telehealth," which includes telephones and mobile phones, computers, remote sensors, the internet, and other devices, to provide immediate real-time information to service users to improve the management of chronic health conditions. Some initial findings have suggested that technology could improve the quality of life of people with SMI.
OBJECTIVE: In this systematic review, we aimed to identify the various uses and efficacy of telehealth technology for SMI.
METHODS: We systematically searched electronic databases from inception to March 2016 (MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, Health Technology Assessment, CINAHL Plus, and NHS Economic Evaluations Database) to identify randomized controlled trials evaluating telehealth for adults with SMI published in English. Additional literature was identified through searching reference lists of key articles. The articles meeting the inclusion criteria were systematically reviewed and assessed for quality and risk of bias.
RESULTS: Our search identified 31 articles describing 29 trials as eligible for the review. The included studies evaluated the use of computers to deliver cognitive rehabilitation (15 trials), patient education (3 trials), and Web-based self-management interventions (2 trials) and to support consultations (1 trial). Virtual reality was used to simulate work and social situations (2 trials) and to deliver cognitive training (1 trial). Telephones were used to prompt service users to take medications (3 trials) and to report symptoms to their health care team (1 trial). Remote sensors were used to monitor medication use (1 trial). Telephone support was found effective in improving medication adherence and reducing the severity of symptoms and inpatient days. Computer-assisted cognitive rehabilitation was effective in improving cognitive function. The impact of telehealth on other outcomes was inconsistent. The results of this review should be taken in the context of varied quality in study design, with only 5 studies demonstrating a low risk of bias.
CONCLUSIONS: A growing variety of telehealth technologies are being used to support the management of SMI. Specific technology types have been found to be effective for some outcomes (eg, telephone and remote medication monitoring for adherence to treatment), while other types of telehealth technologies (eg, delivery of patient education using computers) had no benefit over traditional nurse-based methods and were less acceptable to patients. Further research is warranted to establish the full potential benefits of telehealth for improving the quality of life in people with SMI, acceptability from the service user perspective, and cost-effectiveness. The findings of this review are limited by the poor quality of many of the studies reviewed.
Label Included: 0

Title: A smartphone-based teleconsultation system for the management of chronic pressure injuries.
Abstract: We investigated the accuracy of pressure injury evaluation using tele-devices and examined the concordance between automatically generated recommendations and primary manual recommendations. Caregivers took photos and videos of pressure injuries using smartphones with built-in cameras and uploaded the media to the application. The wound team evaluated the wound using a specially modified version of the Pressure Sore Status Tool. This was compared with the Pressure Sore Status Tool score assessed during the actual examination of the patient. We developed an automatic algorithm for dressing based on the Pressure Sore Status Tool score, checking for consistency between this and the primary manual recommendation. A total of 60 patients diagnosed with pressure injuries were included. The κ coefficients indicated substantial agreement for wound size and total score, and excellent for all other items. We found that the overall concordance rates were statistically significant for all items (p < 0.001). For the primary dressing, the κ coefficient for the concordance rate of automatic algorithm and manual recommendation was 0.771, while that of teleconsultation system and manual recommendation was 0.971. For the secondary dressing, the figures were 0.798 and 0.989, respectively. All values were statistically significant (p < 0.001). We presented strong evidence documenting the utilization of a smartphone, patient-driven system, and demonstrated that the measurements obtained were comparable to the ones obtained by a trained, on-site, wound team. Furthermore, we confirmed agreement between automatically generated recommendations and primary manual recommendations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Is it feasible to deliver a complex intervention to improve the outcome of falls in people with dementia? A protocol for the DIFRID feasibility study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People with dementia (PWD) experience ten times as many incident falls as people without dementia. Little is known about how best to deliver services to people with dementia following a fall. We used an integrated, mixed-methods approach to develop a new intervention which combines theory generated via a realist synthesis and data on current provision and pathways, gathered through a prospective observational study as well as qualitative interviews, focus groups and ethnographic observation. This intervention is to be tested in a feasibility study in the UK National Health Service.
METHODS: People living with dementia in one of three geographical areas will be eligible for the study if they experience a fall requiring healthcare attention and have an informal carer. Potential participants will be identified by community services (primary care, paramedics, telecare), secondary care (ED, facilitated discharge services, rehabilitation outreach teams) and research case registers. Participants will receive a complex multidisciplinary intervention focused on their goals and interests for up to 12 weeks. The intervention will be delivered by occupational therapists, physiotherapists and rehabilitation support workers. Feasibility outcomes will include recruitment and retention, suitability and acceptability of outcome measures and acceptability, feasibility and fidelity of intervention components. PWD outcome measures will include number of falls, Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA), European Quality of Life Instrument (EQ-5D-5L), Quality of Life-Alzheimer's Disease Scale (QOL-AD), Modified Falls Efficacy Scale (MFES) and Goal Attainment Scaling (GAS). PWD outcome measures completed by an informal carer will include Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD), EQ-5D-5L Proxy, QoL-AD Proxy and a Health Utilisation Questionnaire (HUQ). The carer outcome measure will be the Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI). An embedded process evaluation will explore barriers and facilitators to recruitment and intervention delivery.
DISCUSSION: The study results will inform whether and how a larger multicentre RCT should be undertaken. A full RCT would have the potential to show how outcomes can be improved for people with dementia who have fallen.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The National Research Ethics Service Committee Newcastle and North Tyneside 2 approved the feasibility study.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Registry. Registration number: ISRCTN41760734. Date of registration: 16/11/2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: In-office versus Operating Room Sialendoscopy: Comparison of Outcomes, Patient Time Burden, and Charge Analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate outcomes of in-office versus operating room (OR) sialendoscopy/sialolithotomy and to recognize the efficiency of outpatient salivary gland surgery with significant time and facility charge reductions.
STUDY DESIGN: Case series with chart review.
SETTING: State hospital OR and ambulatory clinic.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Retrospective review was performed of adult patients treated for inflammatory salivary diseases by a single surgeon from 2011 to 2016. The patients were divided into 2 groups based on procedure setting (office vs OR) and compared by various baseline features, including demographics, symptom onset and duration, stone size, symptomatic improvement, and recurrence. Patient time burden was compared via office procedure records and OR time charting from the electronic health record. Retrospective clinic and hospital charge sheets were tallied and similarly compared.
RESULTS: The 2 cohorts (office, n = 111; OR, n = 96) were comparable in all demographics, including sialolith number and size (7.36 vs 6.69 mm, P = .45). Additional subgrouping was statistically similar. Both cohorts had similar postprocedure symptom improvement (97% vs 95.8%, P = .65) and recurrence rates (8.9% vs 14.5%, P = .22) independent of subgroup. Overall time burden for patients was 39 minutes in the office versus 277 minutes in the OR ( P ≤ .0001). Procedure and hospital charge data were tallied and compared (office, $719.21; OR, $13,956.14; P ≤ .0001).
CONCLUSION: Bothcohorts were statistically similar in all features. There was significant reduction in patient time burden and health care charges with office-based procedures while maintaining similar symptom improvement and recurrence rates.
Label Included: 0

Title: Rationale and design for eHealth Familias Unidas Primary Care: A drug use, sexual risk behavior, and STI preventive intervention for hispanic youth in pediatric primary care clinics.
Abstract: Family-based behavioral interventions are efficacious and effective in preventing drug use and sexual risk behaviors; unfortunately, they have not been evaluated and disseminated in pediatric primary care practice, where they can have a significant impact. There is an increased focus on integrating parenting interventions into primary care to reduce health disparities among ethnic minorities such as Hispanics. Although Hispanic youth demonstrate higher levels of drug use and sexual risk behaviors than their non-Hispanic counterparts, few parenting interventions are available for Hispanic youth, and none have been delivered specifically to Hispanic adolescents in primary care. Therefore, this manuscript describes the rationale and design of an Internet-based, family-centered, Hispanic-specific, evidence-based prevention intervention, eHealth Familias Unidas Primary Care. Hispanic adolescents (n = 456) and their care givers will be recruited from pediatric primary care clinics in South Florida and randomized to: eHealth Familias Unidas Primary Care or prevention as usual. The intervention will be delivered by trained interns, clinic volunteers, social workers, mental health counselors, students, and nurses. Outcomes will be measured at baseline and 6, 12, 24, and 36 months post-baseline. This study will determine whether the intervention, compared to prevention as usual, is effective in reducing drug use, unprotected sex, and STI incidence in Hispanic youth through the improvement of family functioning. Additionally, we will determine the cost effectiveness of delivering eHealth Familias Unidas within primary care settings. The effectiveness of eHealth Familias Unidas Primary Care will further inform the need to integrate effective behavioral health interventions into primary care settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Stories From the Webcams: Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center Audiology Telehealth and Pediatric Auditory Device Services.
Abstract: PURPOSE: The purpose of this manuscript is to describe the regulatory, technological, and training considerations for audiologists investigating telehealth and to offer some examples of audiology services provided through telehealth.
METHOD: The authors presented the regulatory components, the technology required for audiology staff and patients, and staff training for the audiology telehealth program at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. Four case studies highlighting the successful use of telehealth in providing auditory device services to patients were also presented.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The described regulatory, technological, and training hierarchy provides a framework for audiologists interested in starting a telehealth program. The cases presented illustrate that telehealth can be used to provide some auditory device services, such as troubleshooting, mapping, and parent consulting.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of e-health interventions for depression and anxiety in primary care: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Psychological interventions are labor-intensive and expensive, but e-health interventions may support them in primary care. In this study, we systematically reviewed the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of e-health interventions for depressive and anxiety symptoms and disorders in primary care.
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, Cochrane library, Embase, and PsychINFO until January 2018, for randomized controlled trials of e-health interventions for depression or anxiety in primary care. Two reviewers independently screened the identified publications, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias using the Cochrane Collaboration's tool.
RESULTS: Out of 3617 publications, we included 14 that compared 33 treatments in 4183 participants. Overall, the methodological quality was poor to fair. The pooled effect size of e-health interventions was small (standardized mean difference = -0.19, 95%CI -0.31 to -0.06) for depression compared to control groups in the short-term, but this was maintained in the long-term (standardized mean difference = -0.22, 95%CI -0.35 to -0.09). Further analysis showed that e-health for depression had a small effect compared to care as usual and a moderate effect compared to waiting lists. One trial on anxiety showed no significant results. Four trials reported on cost-effectiveness.
LIMITATIONS: The trials studied different types of e-health interventions and had several risks of bias. Moreover, only one study was included for anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: E-health interventions for depression have a small effect in primary care, with a moderate effect compared to waiting lists. The approach also appeared to be cost-effective for depression. However, we found no evidence for its effectiveness for anxiety.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote Monitoring of Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators, Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy and Permanent Pacemakers: A Health Technology Assessment.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Under usual care, people with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD), cardiac resynchronization therapy with or without a defibrillator (CRT-D and CRT-P, respectively), or a permanent pacemaker have follow-up in-person clinic visits. Remote monitoring of these devices allows the transfer of the information stored in the device so that it can be accessed by the clinic personnel via a secured website.
METHODS: We completed a health technology assessment, which included an evaluation of clinical benefits and harms, value for money, and patient preferences for remote monitoring of ICDs, CRTs, and permanent pacemakers plus clinic visits compared with clinic visits alone. This is an update of a 2012 health technology assessment. In addition to the eligible randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from the 2012 publication, we included RCTs identified through a systematic literature search on June 1, 2017. We assessed the risk of bias of each study using the Cochrane risk of bias tool and the quality of the body of evidence according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) Working Group criteria. We conducted an economic evaluation to determine the cost-effectiveness of remote monitoring blended with in-clinic follow-up compared to in-clinic follow-up alone in patients with an ICD, a CRT-D, or a pacemaker. We determined the budget impact of blended remote monitoring in patients implanted with ICD, CRT-D, CRT-P, or pacemaker devices from the perspective of the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care. To understand patient experiences with remote monitoring, we interviewed 16 patients and family members.
RESULTS: Based on 15 RCTs in patients with implanted ICDs or CRT-Ds, remote monitoring plus clinic visits resulted in fewer patients with inappropriate ICD shocks within 12 to 37 months of follow-up (moderate quality evidence; absolute risk difference -0.04 [95% confidence interval -0.07 to -0.01]), fewer total clinic visits (moderate quality evidence), and a shorter time to detection and treatment of events (moderate quality evidence) compared with clinic visits alone. There was a similar risk of major adverse events (moderate quality evidence).Based on 6 RCTs in patients with pacemakers, remote monitoring plus clinic visits reduced the arrhythmia burden (high quality evidence), the time to detection and treatment of arrhythmias (high quality evidence), and the number of clinic visits (moderate quality evidence]) compared with clinic visits alone. Here again, there was a similar risk of major adverse events (high quality evidence).Results from the economic evaluation showed that among ICD and CRT-D recipients, blended remote monitoring (remote monitoring plus in-clinic follow ups) was more costly (incremental value of $4,354 per person) and more effective, providing higher quality-adjusted life years (incremental value of 0.19), compared to in-clinic follow-up alone. Among pacemaker recipients, blended remote monitoring was less costly (with an incremental saving of $2,370 per person) and more effective (with an incremental value of 0.12 quality-adjusted life years) than with in-clinic follow-up alone. We estimated that publicly funding remote monitoring could result in cost savings of $14 million over the first five years.Participants using remote monitoring reported that these devices provide important medical and safety benefits in managing their heart condition. Remote cardiac monitoring provides patients and their family members with an increased freedom. Their belief that the device will help with earlier detection of technical or clinical problems reduces the amount of stress and distraction their condition causes in their lives.
CONCLUSIONS: Remote monitoring of ICDs, CRT-Ds, and pacemakers plus clinic visits resulted in improved outcomes without increasing the risk of major adverse events compared with clinic visits alone. Remote monitoring is a cost-effective option for patients implanted with cardiac electronic devices. Patients reported positive experiences using remote monitoring, and perceived that the device provided important medical and safety benefits.
Label Included: 0

Title: Can high-cost spending in the community signal admission to hospital? A dynamic modeling study for urgent and elective cardiovascular patients.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Much of the research on high-cost patients in healthcare has taken a static approach to studying what is actually a dynamic process. High-cost patients often utilize services across multiple sectors along care pathways, but due to the cross-sectional nature of many study designs, we lack a clear understanding of the temporal relationship between high-cost spending in community and acute care. Studying care trajectories for high cost patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD) can shed light on the dynamic interplay between community-based and acute care along the care continuum, and provide information about signals in community care that may indicate future elective and urgent hospitalizations.
METHODS: Using linked health administrative data in Ontario, Canada, 74,683 incident cases with cardiovascular disease were identified between the years 2009 and 2011. Patients were followed for 36 months (total study duration 2009-2014) until the first urgent or elective admission to hospital for a heart-related condition. We used an extended Cox survival model with competing risks to study the relationship between high-cost spending in community care with two mutually exclusive outcomes: urgent or elective hospitalizations.
RESULTS: Elective hospitalizations were most clearly signaled by a high-cost utilization of community-based specialist services in the month prior to hospital admission (hazard ratio 9.074, p < 0.0001), while urgent hospitalizations were signaled by high cost usage across all community-based sectors of care (from general practitioner & specialist visits, home care, laboratory services and emergency department (ED) usage). Urgent hospitalizations were most clearly signaled by high cost usage in ED in the month prior to hospital admission (hazard ratio 2.563, p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: By studying the dynamic nature of patient care trajectories, we may use community-based spending patterns as signals in the system that can point to future and elective hospitalizations for CVD. These community-based spending signals may be useful for identifying opportunities for intervention along the care trajectory, particularly for urgent CVD patients for whom future hospitalizations are difficult to anticipate.
Label Included: 0

Title: How does it work? Factors involved in telemedicine home-interventions effectiveness: A review of reviews.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Definitive evidence of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telemedicine home-interventions for the management of chronic diseases is still lacking. This study examines whether and how published reviews consider and discuss the influence on outcomes of different factors, including: setting, target, and intensity of intervention; patient engagement; the perspective of patients, caregivers and health professionals; the organizational model; patient education and support. Included reviews were also assessed in terms of economic and ethical issues.
METHODS: Two search algorithms were developed to scan PubMed for reviews published between 2000 and 2015, about ICT-based interventions for the management of hypertension, diabetes, heart failure, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or for the care of elderly patients. Based on our inclusion criteria, 25 reviews were selected for analysis.
RESULTS: None of the included reviews covered all the above-mentioned factors. They mostly considered target (44%) and intervention intensity (24%). Setting, ethical issues, patient engagement, and caregiver perspective were the most neglected factors (considered in 0-4% of the reviews). Only 4 reviews (16%) considered at least 4 of the 11 factors, the maximum number of factors considered in a review is 5.
CONCLUSIONS: Factors that may be involved in ICT-based interventions, affecting their effectiveness or cost-effectiveness, are not enough studied in the literature. This research suggests to consider mostly the role of each one, comparing not only disease-related outcomes, but also patients and healthcare organizations outcomes, and patient engagement, in order to understand how interventions work.
Label Included: 0

Title: Equipping staff with the skills to maximise recovery of people with dementia after an injurious fall.
Abstract: Objectives: People with dementia are more likely to fall and less likely to recover well after a fall than cognitively intact older people. Little is known about how best to deliver services to this patient group. This paper explores the importance of compensating for cognitive impairment when working with people with dementia. Methods: Qualitative methods - interviews, focus groups and observation - were used to explore the views and experiences of people with dementia, family carers and professionals providing services to people with dementia following an injurious fall. A thematic, iterative analysis was undertaken in which emerging themes were identified from each individual dataset, prior to an integrative analysis. Results: A key theme across all datasets was the need to deliver services in ways that compensate for cognitive impairment, such as negotiating meaningful activities that can be embedded into the routines of people with dementia. Professionals varied in their ability to adapt their practice to meet the needs of people with dementia. Negative attitudes towards dementia, a lack of knowledge and understanding of dementia limited the ability of some professionals to work in person-centred ways. Conclusion: Improving outcomes for people with dementia following a fall requires the principles of person-centred care to be enacted by professionals with a generic role, as well as specialist staff. This requires additional training and support by specialist staff to address the wide variability in current practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: eHealth for people with multimorbidity: Results from the ICARE4EU project and insights from the "10 e's" by Gunther Eysenbach.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People with multimorbidity, especially older people, have complex health and social needs, and require an integrated care approach. In this respect, eHealth could be of support. This paper aims to describe the implementation of eHealth technologies in integrated care programs for people with multimorbidity in Europe, and to analyse related benefits and barriers according to outcomes from ICARE4EU study and within the more general conceptual framework of the "10 e's" in eHealth by Gunther Eysenbach.
METHODS: In 2014, ICARE4EU project identified 101 integrated care programs in 24 European countries. Expert organizations and managers of the programs completed an on-line questionnaire addressing several aspects including the adoption of eHealth. Findings from this questionnaire were analyzed, by linking in particular benefits and barriers of eHealth with the "10 e's" by Eysenbach (Efficiency, Enhancing, Evidence-based, Empowerment, Encouragement, Education, Enabling, Extending, Ethics, and Equity).
RESULTS: Out of 101 programs, 85 adopted eHealth tools, of which 42 focused explicitly on older people. eHealth could improve care integration/management, quality of care/life and cost-efficiency, whereas inadequate funding represents a major barrier. The "10 e's" by Eysenbach seem to show contact points with ICARE4EU findings, in particular when referring to positive aspects of eHealth such as Efficiency and Enhancing quality of care/life, although Empowerment/Education of patients, care Equity and Ethics issues seem crucial in this respect. Encouragement of a new relationship patient-health professional, and Enabling standardized exchange of electronic information, represent further aspects impacting integration/management of care.
CONCLUSIONS: Aspects of eHealth, which emerged as benefits and barriers impacting integration/management of care, as well as cost-efficiency and quality of care/life, can be identified on the basis of both ICARE4EU findings and the "10 e's" in eHealth by Eysenbach. They could represent objectives of new policies for supporting the deployment of eHealth technologies within integrated care across Europe.
Label Included: 0

Title: Merging current health care trends: innovative perspective in aging care.
Abstract: Current trends in health care delivery and management such as predictive and personalized health care incorporating information and communication technologies, home-based care, health prevention and promotion through patients' empowerment, care coordination, community health networks and governance represent exciting possibilities to dramatically improve health care. However, as a whole, current health care trends involve a fragmented and scattered array of practices and uncoordinated pilot projects. The present paper describes an innovative and integrated model incorporating and "assembling" best practices and projects of new innovations into an overarching health care system that can effectively address the multidimensional health care challenges related to aging patient especially with chronic health issues. The main goal of the proposed model is to address the emerging health care challenges of an aging population and stimulate improved cost-efficiency, effectiveness, and patients' well-being. The proposed home-based and community-centered Integrated Healthcare Management System may facilitate reaching the persons in their natural context, improving early detection, and preventing illnesses. The system allows simplifying the health care institutional structures through interorganizational coordination, increasing inclusiveness and extensiveness of health care delivery. As a consequence of such coordination and integration, future merging efforts of current health care approaches may provide feasible solutions that result in improved cost-efficiency of health care services and simultaneously increase the quality of life, in particular, by switching the center of gravity of health delivery to a close relationship of individuals in their communities, making best use of their personal and social resources, especially effective in health delivery for aging persons with complex chronic illnesses.
Label Included: 0

Title: Weighing benefits and risks in aspects of security, privacy and adoption of technology in a value-based healthcare system.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Technology can potentially enable the implementation of a value-based healthcare system, where the impact of quality of care is offered at optimised cost for maximised patient benefit. Technology can deliver value by aiding in data collection to evaluate outcomes and measure costs on a patient and population level. Healthcare organisations, however, face several challenges and risks that result almost exclusively from the use of these technologies.
DISCUSSION: Some challenges associated with healthcare technology include their unsustainability, due to lack of scale-up plans and timely evaluations. Other risks include noncompliance with data protection policies, inadequate data governance, and overestimated expectations resulting from the rapid introduction of new technologies.
CONCLUSION: Organisations need to consider the risks and challenges associated with the use of technology and develop comprehensive strategies that mitigate factors leading to non-adoption and to realise benefits for achieving a value-based healthcare system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects, costs and feasibility of the 'Stay Active at Home' Reablement training programme for home care professionals: study protocol of a cluster randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: According to the principles of Reablement, home care services are meant to be goal-oriented, holistic and person-centred taking into account the capabilities and opportunities of older adults. However, home care services traditionally focus on doing things for older adults rather than with them. To implement Reablement in practice, the 'Stay Active at Home' programme was developed. It is assumed that the programme leads to a reduction in sedentary behaviour in older adults and consequently more cost-effective outcomes in terms of their health and wellbeing. However, this has yet to be proven.
METHODS/ DESIGN: A two-group cluster randomised controlled trial with 12 months follow-up will be conducted. Ten nursing teams will be selected, pre-stratified on working area and randomised into an intervention group ('Stay Active at Home') or control group (no training). All nurses of the participating teams are eligible to participate in the study. Older adults and, if applicable, their domestic support workers (DSWs) will be allocated to the intervention or control group as well, based on the allocation of the nursing team. Older adults are eligible to participate, if they: 1) receive homecare services by the selected teams; and 2) are 65 years or older. Older adults will be excluded if they: 1) are terminally ill or bedbound; 2) have serious cognitive or psychological problems; or 3) are unable to communicate in Dutch. DSWs are eligible to participate if they provide services to clients who fulfil the eligibility criteria for older adults. The study consists of an effect evaluation (primary outcome: sedentary behaviour in older adults), an economic evaluation and a process evaluation. Data for the effect and economic evaluation will be collected at baseline and 6 and/or 12 months after baseline using performance-based and self-reported measures. In addition, data from client records will be extracted. A mixed-methods design will be applied for the process evaluation, collecting data of older adults and professionals throughout the study period.
DISCUSSION: This study will result in evidence about the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and feasibility of the 'Stay Active at Home' programme.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03293303 , registered on 20 September 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: Geriatric Telepsychiatry: Systematic Review and Policy Considerations.
Abstract: Telemental health (TMH) for older patients has the potential to increase access to geriatric specialists, reduce travel times for patients and providers, and reduce ever growing healthcare costs. This systematic review article examines the literature regarding psychiatric assessment and treatment via telemedicine for geriatric patients. English language literature was searched using Ovid Medline, PubMed, and PsycINFO with search terms including telemedicine, telemental health, aging, and dementia. Abstracts were reviewed for relevance based on inclusion criteria. Multiple study types were reviewed, including open label, qualitative and randomized controlled trial study designs. Data was compiled regarding participants, study intervention, and outcomes. 76 articles were included. TMH was shown to be feasible and well accepted in the areas of inpatient and nursing home consultation, cognitive testing, dementia diagnosis and treatment, depression in integrated and collaborative care models, and psychotherapy. There is limited data on cost-effectiveness of TMH in the elderly. This article will discuss the current barriers to broader implementation of telemedicine for geriatric patients including reimbursement from the Medicare program. Medicare reimbursement for telemedicine is limited to rural areas, which does not allow for the widespread development of telemedicine programs. All Medicare beneficiaries would benefit from increased access to telemedicine services, not only those living in rural areas. As many elderly and disabled individuals have mobility problems, home-based telemedicine services should also be made available. There are efforts in Congress to expand the coverage of these services under Medicare, but strong advocacy will be needed to ensure these efforts are successful.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a digital platform for osteoarthritis treatment: study protocol for a randomised clinical study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Despite favourable results from structured face-to-face treatment of osteoarthritis (OA) in Sweden through the Better management of patients with OsteoArthritis (BOA) initiative, only around 20% of people with knee or hip OA receive the primary treatment recommended by international guidelines (ie, information, exercise, weight management). In 2014, a digital treatment programme named Joint Academy was introduced in Sweden, based on the same concept as the face-to-face BOA programme. In line with BOA, Joint Academy follows national and international guidelines and best practice for OA treatment. Results from observational studies suggest that this digital treatment is a valuable alternative to the traditional treatment approach and can positively impact patients' function and pain. However, conclusions from such studies commonly suggest that more rigorous testing is necessary to ascertain the benefits of digital treatment delivery for people with OA.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A randomised clinical trial will be performed, comparing regular face-to-face care according to BOA with the digital version, Joint Academy. A total of 270 participants with clinically diagnosed knee OA will be recruited at primary care centres and randomised to either standard treatment (BOA) for 3 months, or the experimental group (digital intervention programme). Both groups will receive educational sessions and exercises yet with a difference in programme deliverance. The objective of the trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of the online treatment programme, in comparison with BOA. The two treatment groups will be compared with respect to the number of repetitions of the 30 s chair stand test at 3, 6 and 12 months, using a mixed model repeated measures analysis of variance.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval has been attained from the Regional Board of Ethics in Lund, Sweden (Dnr 2017/719). Results will be published in peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03328741.
Label Included: 0

Title: System-integrated technology-enabled model of care to improve the health of stroke patients in rural China: protocol for SINEMA-a cluster-randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite the significant burden of stroke in rural China, secondary prevention of stroke is suboptimal. This study aims to develop a SINEMA for the secondary prevention of stroke in rural China and to evaluate the effectiveness of the model compared with usual care.
METHODS: The SINEMA model is being implemented and evaluated through a 1-year cluster-randomized controlled trial in Nanhe County, Hebei Province in China. Fifty villages from 5 townships are randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either the intervention or the control arm (usual care) with a target to enroll 25 stroke survivors per village. Village doctors in the intervention arm (1) receive systematic cascade training by stroke specialists on clinical guidelines, essential medicines and behavior change; (2) conduct monthly follow-up visits with the support of a mobile phone application designed for this study; (3) participate in virtual group activities with other village doctors; 4) receive performance feedback and payment. Stroke survivors participate in a health education and project briefing session, receive monthly follow-up visits by village doctors and receive a voice message call daily as reminders for medication use and physical activities. Baseline and 1-year follow-up survey will be conducted in all villages by trained staff who are blinded of the randomized allocation of villages. The primary outcome will be systolic blood pressure and the secondary outcomes will include diastolic blood pressure, medication adherence, mobility, physical activity level and quality of life. Process and economic evaluation will also be conducted.
DISCUSSION: This study is one of very few that aim to promote secondary prevention of stroke in resource-constrained settings and the first to incorporate mobile technologies for both healthcare providers and patients in China. The SINEMA model is innovative as it builds the capacity of primary healthcare workers in the rural area, uses mobile health technologies at the point of care, and addresses critical health needs for a vulnerable community-dwelling patient group. The findings of the study will provide translational evidence for other resource-constrained settings in developing strategies for the secondary prevention of stroke.
Label Included: 0

Title: Intensive home care packages for people with dementia: a realist evaluation protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dementia presents a significant challenge to health systems and to the person and family affected. Home care is increasingly seen as a key service in addressing this challenge in a person-centred and cost-effective way. Intensive Home Care Packages (IHCPs) were introduced in Ireland to provide personalised and high levels of support for people with dementia to remain at home or be discharged home from hospital, and to build on the work of the HSE & Genio Dementia Programme. This realist evaluation is concerned with real world questions of feasibility and effectiveness; specifically understanding in what ways IHCPs work, how optimum outcomes are achieved, for whom and in what contexts do IHCPs work best.
METHODS: A mixed-method, multi-stakeholder study was designed within a realist evaluation conceptual framework. The process evaluation includes semi-structured interviews with health service staff at all levels, social network analysis and secondary database analysis; the outcomes evaluation includes quantitative measures and qualitative data collected through in-depth interviews with people with dementia and family carers; and the cost evaluation includes analysis of data from the Resource Utilisation in Dementia (RUD). The four stage cycle of realist evaluation is adopted, with iterative rounds of theory formulation, data collection and theory testing throughout.
DISCUSSION: This realist evaluation of a complex intervention involves a variety of data and perspectives in order to provide confidence in moving from hypothetical constructs about how IHCPs might work to explanations of potential or observable causal mechanisms. In spite of being a key form of service delivery in most healthcare systems, the ways in which home care works to produce the desired outcomes seems to be poorly understood. While there is much descriptive and comparative work, there is a lack of understanding regarding which patient groups might benefit most from home care, or the influence of different service or cultural contexts on outcomes from home care. As well as addressing the core research objectives, this study aims to make a contribution to the underlying theory of home care in ways that can progress our understanding of how outcomes are produced for home care recipients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Study protocol for investigating the impact of community home modification services on hospital utilisation for fall injuries: a controlled longitudinal study using data linkage.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: This study will evaluate the effectiveness of home adaptations, both in preventing hospital admissions due to falls for older people, and improving timely discharge. Results will provide evidence for services at the interface between health and social care, informing policies seeking to promote healthy ageing through prudent healthcare and fall prevention.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: All individuals living in Wales, UK, aged 60 years and over, will be included in the study using anonymised linked data from the Secure Anonymised Information Linkage Databank. We will use a national database of home modifications implemented by the charity organisation Care & Repair Cymru (C&R) from 2009 to 2017 to define an intervention cohort. We will use the electronic Frailty Index to assign individual levels of frailty (fit, mild, moderate or severe) and use these to create a comparator group (non-C&R) of people who have not received a C&R intervention. Coprimary outcomes will be quarterly numbers of emergency hospital admissions attributed to falls at home, and the associated length of stay. Secondary outcomes include the time in moving to a care home following a fall, and the indicative financial costs of care for individuals who had a fall. We will use appropriate multilevel generalised linear models to analyse the number of hospital admissions related to falls. We will use Cox proportional hazard models to compare the length of stay for fall-related hospital admissions and the time in moving to a care home between the C&R and non-C&R cohorts. We will assess the impact per frailty group, correct for population migration and adjust for confounding variables. Indicative costs will be calculated using financial codes for individual-level hospital stays. Results will provide evidence for services at the interface between health and social care, informing policies seeking to promote healthy ageing through prudent healthcare and prevention.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Information governance requirements for the use of record-linked data have been approved and only anonymised data will be used in our analysis. Our results will be submitted for publication in peer-reviewed journals. We will also work with lay members and the knowledge transfer team at Swansea University to create communication and dissemination materials on key findings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Benefits and Costs of Digital Consulting in Clinics Serving Young People With Long-Term Conditions: Mixed-Methods Approach.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Since the introduction of digital health technologies in National Health Service (NHS), health professionals are starting to use email, text, and other digital methods to consult with their patients in a timely manner. There is lack of evidence regarding the economic impact of digital consulting in the United Kingdom (UK) NHS.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to estimate the direct costs associated with digital consulting as an adjunct to routine care at 18 clinics serving young people aged 16-24 years with long-term conditions.
METHODS: This study uses both quantitative and qualitative approaches. Semistructured interviews were conducted with 173 clinical team members on the impacts of digital consulting. A structured questionnaire was developed and used for 115 health professionals across 12 health conditions at 18 sites in the United Kingdom to collect data on time and other resources used for digital consulting. A follow-up semistructured interview was conducted with a single senior clinician at each site to clarify the mechanisms through which digital consulting use might lead to outcomes relevant to economic evaluation. We used the two-part model to see the association between the time spent on digital consulting and the job role of staff, type of clinic, and the average length of the working hours using digital consulting.
RESULTS: When estimated using the two-part model, consultants spent less time on digital consulting compared with nurses (95.48 minutes; P<.001), physiotherapists (55.3 minutes; P<.001), and psychologists (31.67 minutes; P<.001). Part-time staff spent less time using digital consulting than full-time staff despite insignificant result (P=.15). Time spent on digital consulting differed across sites, and no clear pattern in using digital consulting was found. Health professionals qualitatively identified the following 4 potential economic impacts for the NHS: decreasing adverse events, improving patient well-being, decreasing wait lists, and staff workload. We did not find evidence to suggest that the clinical condition was associated with digital consulting use.
CONCLUSIONS: Nurses and physiotherapists were the greatest users of digital consulting. Teams appear to use an efficient triage system with the most expensive members digitally consulting less than lower-paid team members. Staff report showed concerns regarding time spent digitally consulting, which implies that direct costs increase. There remain considerable gaps in evidence related to cost-effectiveness of digital consulting, but this study has highlighted important cost-related outcomes for assessment in future cost-effectiveness trials of digital consulting.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evolving Changes in the Delivery of Health Services: A Place for Urological Homecare?
Abstract: The ongoing pressure to improve quality while reducing costs is leading to increased uptake of various urological homecare models. Urological homecare can involve reductions in hospital usage and costs, traveling time for the patient, and hospital deaths and can improve patient experience and satisfaction.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Prenatal Remote Monitoring Program in Pregnancies Complicated with Gestational Hypertensive Disorders: What Are the Contributors to the Cost Savings?
Abstract: Background:In 2015, we performed a cost analysis of a prenatal remote monitoring (RM) program compared with conventional care (CC) for women diagnosed with gestational hypertensive disorders (GHD).Introduction:We investigated where the cost savings were distributed by dividing our patient population into three subgroups, according to the gestational age (GA) at the time of delivery: (1) <34 weeks; (2) 34-37 weeks; and (3) >37 weeks of GA.Materials and Methods:Health care costs were calculated from patient-specific hospital bills at Ziekenhuis Oost Limburg (Genk, Belgium) in 2015-2016. Cost comparisons were made from the perspectives of the Belgium national health care system (HCS), the National Institution for Insurance of Disease and Disability (RIZIV), and the costs to individual patients.Results:A total of 256 pregnant women were included, 80 (31.25%) of whom received RM and 176 (68.75%) of whom received CC. The greatest difference in costs between RM and CC was in the group that delivered before 34 weeks of GA, followed by the group who delivered after 37 weeks of GA, and then the group of women who delivered at 34-37 weeks of GA. Most of the cost savings were in neonatal care, for both the three separate study subgroups and the total study group.Discussion and Conclusion:Our data showed that RM is more cost-effective than CC for pregnant women with GHD. Further investigation of the effects of RM on the long-term economic and social costs is recommended, together with an analysis of the price that should be asked for RM services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Why the uptake of eRehabilitation programs in stroke care is so difficult-a focus group study in the Netherlands.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The uptake of eRehabilitation programs in stroke care is insufficient, despite the growing availability. The aim of this study was to explore which factors influence the uptake of eRehabilitation in stroke rehabilitation, among stroke patients, informal caregivers, and healthcare professionals.
METHODS: A qualitative focus group study with eight focus groups (6-8 participants per group) was conducted: six with stroke patients/informal caregivers and two with healthcare professionals involved in stroke rehabilitation (rehabilitation physicians, physical therapists, occupational therapists, psychologists, managers). Focus group interviews were audiotaped, transcribed in full, and analyzed by direct content analysis using the implementation model of Grol.
RESULTS: Thirty-two patients, 15 informal caregivers, and 13 healthcare professionals were included. A total of 14 influencing factors were found, grouped to 5 of the 6 levels of the implementation model of Grol (Innovation, Organizational context, Individual patient, Individual professional, and Economic and political context). Most quotes of patients, informal caregivers, and healthcare professionals were classified to factors at the level of the Innovation (e.g., content, attractiveness, and feasibility of eRehabilitation programs). In addition, for patients, relatively many quotes were classified to factors at the level of the individual patient (e.g., patients characteristics as fatigue and the inability to understand ICT-devices), and for healthcare professionals at the level of the organizational context (e.g., having sufficient time and the fit with existing processes of care).
CONCLUSION: Although there was a considerable overlap in reported factors between patients/informal caregivers and healthcare professionals when it concerns eRehabilitation as innovation, its seems that patients/informal caregivers give more emphasis to factors related to the individual patient, whereas healthcare professionals emphasize the importance of factors related to the organizational context. This difference should be considered when developing an implementation strategy for patients and healthcare professionals separately.
Label Included: 0

Title: REAL-WORLD CLINICAL EVALUATION AND COSTS OF TELEMEDICINE FOR CHRONIC WOUND MANAGEMENT.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic wounds are frequent, affect quality of life, and increase care costs. Telemedicine provides potential for effective wound care management, especially for the monitoring of complex wounds at home.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of the present study was to determine the clinical effects and costs of telemedicine for the follow-up of complex chronic wounds from the perspective of the public health insurance. The study ran over a period of 9 months.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective, pragmatic, open-label, observational study and carried out a cost-effectiveness analysis. A total of 116 patients with chronic wounds were assigned to their choice of two groups: telemedicine (N = 77) and traditional follow-up (control; N = 39). The primary outcome was the time to healing. Secondary outcomes included percentage of wounds reaching target objective, percentage of wounds healed completely, outpatient care costs, travel costs, and hospitalizations.
RESULTS: Time to healing was shorter in the telemedicine group than in the control group (137 versus 174 days; p .05). Outpatient care and hospitalization costs were not significantly different. The main results in terms of economic savings were medical transport costs reimbursed by the French public health insurance, which were significantly lower in the telemedicine group. Telemedicine costs were found to be €4,583 less per patient compared with standard practice over 9 months.
CONCLUSIONS: This trial suggests that telemedicine saves travel costs and results in a shorter healing time than traditional follow-up.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telerehabilitation for Stroke Survivors: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telerehabilitation is an emerging technology through which medical rehabilitation care can be provided from a distance.
OBJECTIVE: This systematic review and meta-analysis aims to investigate the efficacy of telerehabilitation in poststroke patients.
METHODS: Eligible randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were identified by searching MEDLINE, Cochrane Central, and Web of Science databases. Continuous data were extracted for relevant outcomes and analyzed using the RevMan software as the standardized mean difference (SMD) and 95% CI in a fixed-effect meta-analysis model.
RESULTS: We included 15 studies (1339 patients) in our systematic review, while only 12 were included in the pooled analysis. The combined effect estimate showed no significant differences between the telerehabilitation and control groups in terms of the Barthel Index (SMD -0.05, 95% CI -0.18 to 0.08), Berg Balance Scale (SMD -0.04, 95% CI -0.34 to 0.26), Fugl-Meyer Upper Extremity (SMD 0.50, 95% CI -0.09 to 1.09), and Stroke Impact Scale (mobility subscale; SMD 0.18, 95% CI -0.13 to 0.48]) scores. Moreover, the majority of included studies showed that both groups were comparable in terms of health-related quality of life (of stroke survivors), Caregiver Strain Index, and patients' satisfaction with care. One study showed that the cost of telerehabilitation was lower than usual care by US $867.
CONCLUSIONS: Telerehabilitation can be a suitable alternative to usual rehabilitation care in poststroke patients, especially in remote or underserved areas. Larger studies are needed to evaluate the health-related quality of life and cost-effectiveness with the ongoing improvements in telerehabilitation networks.
Label Included: 0

Title: Current Status and Future Directions of mHealth Interventions for Health System Strengthening in India: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: With the exponential increase in mobile phone users in India, a large number of public health initiatives are leveraging information technology and mobile devices for health care delivery. Given the considerable financial and human resources being invested in these initiatives, it is important to ascertain their role in strengthening health care systems.
OBJECTIVE: We undertook this review to identify the published mobile health (mHealth) or telemedicine initiatives in India in terms of their current role in health systems strengthening. The review classifies these initiatives based on the disease areas, geographical distribution, and target users and assesses the quality of the available literature.
METHODS: A search of the literature was done to identify mHealth or telemedicine articles published between January 1997 and June 2017 from India. The electronic bibliographic databases and registries searched included MEDLINE, EMBASE, Joanna Briggs Institute Database, and Clinical Trial Registry of India. The World Health Organization health system building block framework was used to categorize the published initiatives as per their role in the health system. Quality assessment of the selected articles was done using the Cochrane risk of bias assessment and National Institutes of Health, US tools.
RESULTS: The combined search strategies yielded 2150 citations out of which 318 articles were included (primary research articles=125; reviews and system architectural, case studies, and opinion articles=193). A sharp increase was seen after 2012, driven primarily by noncommunicable disease-focused articles. Majority of the primary studies had their sites in the south Indian states, with no published articles from Jammu and Kashmir and north-eastern parts of India. Service delivery was the primary focus of 57.6% (72/125) of the selected articles. A majority of these articles had their focus on 1 (36.0%, 45/125) or 2 (45.6%, 57/125) domains of health system, most frequently service delivery and health workforce. Initiatives commonly used client education as a tool for improving the health system. More than 91.2% (114/125) of the studies, which lacked a sample size justification, had used convenience sampling. Methodological rigor of the selected trials (n=11) was assessed to be poor as majority of the studies had a high risk for bias in at least 2 categories.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, mHealth initiatives are being increasingly tested to improve health care delivery in India. Our review highlights the poor quality of the current evidence base and an urgent need for focused research aimed at generating high-quality evidence on the efficacy, user acceptability, and cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions aimed toward health systems strengthening. A pragmatic approach would be to include an implementation research component into the existing and proposed digital health initiatives to support the generation of evidence for health systems strengthening on strategically important outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Benefit Analysis of Providing Fluoride Varnish in a Pediatric Primary Care Office.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The American Academy of Pediatrics and the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, among others, call for the provision of fluoride varnish in the pediatric primary care setting, but many barriers exist to the implementation of such a service in this setting. Knowledge of costs and benefits is one such barrier.
METHODS: A cost-benefit analysis of the implementation of a fluoride varnish program in a pediatric primary care office located in Volusia County, Florida was conducted with the assistance of the office manager and a nurse practitioner using data retrieved from the electronic health record program.
RESULTS: Microsoft Excel was used to calculate estimated mean reimbursement data from the top insurers in this office for this service, and the data show a positive annual net income of $4,498 to $26,775, with an average potential annual net income of $15,637.
CONCLUSIONS: The data from this cost-benefit analysis show a positive financial benefit as an incentive to implement a fluoride varnish program in this primary care pediatric office and serve as a solid foundation for a future quality improvement project to implement such a program.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of mobile radiography services for nursing home residents in Southeast Norway.
Abstract: RATIONALE, AIMS, AND OBJECTIVE: Telemedicine applications, such as a mobile radiography service, provide a new way of organizing healthcare services. In order to provide safe and personalised care for nursing home residents during X-ray examinations, mobile radiography services have been implemented. The objective of this study was to analyse the costs of X-ray examinations and treatments for nursing home residents when comparing hospital-based imaging with a combination of hospital-based imaging and a mobile radiography service in Southeast Norway.
METHODS: A decision model was developed using the software TreeAge Pro. The model included two alternatives: the mobile radiography service in combination with hospital-based imaging and hospital-based imaging alone. The treatment needed based on the examination results could be given either in the nursing home or at the hospital. Probabilities and costs in the model were derived from previous research, various reports, and hospital data from the Southeast region of Norway. Monte Carlo simulations of 1000 residents were run through the model, and statistical analyses were applied.
RESULTS: The analysis showed a mean cost of €2790 per resident for the hospital-based service alone. For mobile and hospital-based services combined, the mean cost was €1946 per resident, including examinations and the immediate treatment given. This difference in costs was significant (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: A mobile radiography service in nursing homes provides a safe, high quality health care service. The result of this study showed there was a 30% cost-reduction by implementing the mobile radiography service.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth for the Assessment of Patients Referred for Pediatric Urological Care: A Preliminary Cost Savings Analysis and Satisfaction Survey.
Abstract: Background:Almost one-fifth of the population of Saudi Arabia lives in rural areas and may still lack access to specialty healthcare. Because of the growing demand for telehealth services, we initiated the virtual clinic (VC) concept for new referrals to the pediatric urology clinic (PUC), the primary tertiary care unit in Riyadh.Methods:We conducted a retrospective analysis of costs and timing involved with the VC practice for a 1-year period. The cost analysis is based on savings realized by patients as a result of the VC evaluation. A 15-question nonvalidated satisfaction survey was also conducted by an independent observer.Results:Of 105 patients assessed through the VC program, 44 were accepted for surgery and further investigation. The number of trips to the center saved by the virtual encounter were 203, resulting in a savings of 740,950 Saudi Arabian Riyals (SAR) minus the cost of the VC. The cost of conducting most of the investigations at the referring hospital instead of the PUC represented a savings of 639,970 SAR. Thus, the overall cost savings to patient and family and to the PUC was 1,311,570 SAR. An additional benefit was the reduction in the time for treatment from 6.6 to 3.9 months. The overall satisfaction rate was 89%.Conclusions:Although preliminary, our study indicates that telemedicine can achieve a cost savings without compromising the safety or adversely affecting patient management. Further studies should more clearly define the benefits and any limitations, and reveal how the technology could be used most effectively.
Label Included: 0

Title: Web-Based Self-Management Programs for Bipolar Disorder: Insights From the Online, Recovery-Oriented Bipolar Individualised Tool Project.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bipolar disorder (BD) is a complex, relapsing mood disorder characterized by considerable morbidity and mortality. Web-based self-management interventions provide marked opportunities for several chronic mental health conditions. However, Web-based self-management programs targeting BD are underrepresented compared with programs targeting other psychiatric conditions.
OBJECTIVE: This paper aims at facilitating future research in the area of self-management of BD and draws insights from the development of one such intervention-the Online, Recovery-Oriented Bipolar Individualised Tool (ORBIT)-that is aimed at improving the quality of life of people with BD.
METHODS: We have discussed the opportunities and challenges in developing an engaging, evidence-based, safe intervention within the context of the following three nested domains: (1) intervention development; (2) scientific testing of the intervention; and (3) ethical framework including risk management.
RESULTS: We gained the following insights across the three abovementioned overlapping domains: Web-based interventions can be optimized through (1) codesign with consumers with lived experience to ensure relevance and appropriateness to the target audience; (2) novel content development processes that iteratively combine evidence-based information with lived experience perspectives, capitalizing on multimedia (eg, videos) that the digital health space provides; and (3) incorporating Web-based communities to connect end users and promote constructive engagement by access to a Web-based coach.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-management is effective in BD, even for those on the more severe end of the spectrum. While there are challenges to be aware of, guided self-management programs, such as those offered by the ORBIT project, which are specifically developed for Web-based delivery provide highly accessible, engaging, and potentially provocative treatments for chronically ill populations who may otherwise have never engaged with treatment. Key questions about engagement, effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness will be answered by the ORBIT project over the next 18 months.
Label Included: 0

Title: Chronic Care Management Services for Complex Diabetes Management: a Practical Overview.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Formalized chronic care management has the potential to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of complex diabetes management in adults, but has historically not been sustainably supported by health care systems. This review discusses the application of the chronic care model in the care of complex diabetes and its translation in the current reimbursement structure designed by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).
RECENT FINDINGS: Following the introduction of Wagner's Chronic Care Model (CCM) in the late 1990s, evidence gathered over the past 2 decades has supported the shift in focus of health care systems from acute to chronic disease management and proactive care. Acknowledging evidence and potential for improved cost-effectiveness, in 2015, Medicare began reimbursing for chronic care management services (CCMS) for patients with multiple chronic conditions. The CCMS billing codes allow a program to be reimbursed for up to 90 min per month spent by clinical staff performing interim care within a comprehensive care plan. Recent data from local and global programs support the application of formalized CCM in diabetes management. Although reimbursement models for CCM have been designed for use in primary care, the challenges of the reimbursement model has opened the door for specialty areas focused on multimorbidity care such as diabetes care to explore this approach. With the broader availability of remote glucose monitoring and telemedicine, a strategy that combines goal-oriented care and telehealth solutions appears to be most effective in diabetes CCM care. Despite widespread acceptance of the chronic care model of care, there remain significant barriers to its incorporation into standard practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of using eHealth tools to extend health services to rural areas of Nigeria: protocol for a mixed-method, non-randomised cluster trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: eHealth solutions that use internet and related technologies to deliver and enhance health services and information are emerging as novel approaches to support healthcare delivery in sub-Saharan Africa. Using digital technology in this way can support cost-effectiveness of care delivery and extend the reach of services to remote locations. Despite the burgeoning literature on eHealth approaches, little is known about the effectiveness of eHealth tools for improving the quality and efficiency of health systems functions or client outcomes in resource-limited countries. eHealth tools including satellite communications are currently being implemented at scale, to extend health services to rural areas of Nigeria, in Ondo and Kano States and the Federal Capital Territory. This paper shares the protocol for a 2-year project ('EXTEND') that aims to evaluate the impact of eHealth tools on health system functions and health outcomes.
METHODOLOGY AND ANALYSIS: This multisite, mixed-method evaluation includes a non-randomised, cluster trial design. The study comprises three phases-baseline, midline and endline evaluations-that involve: (1) process evaluation of video training and digitisation of health data interventions; (2) evaluation of contextual influences on the implementation of interventions; and (3) impact evaluation of results of the project. A convergent mixed-method model will be adopted to allow integration of quantitative and qualitative findings to achieve study objectives. Multiple quantitative and qualitative datasets will be repeatedly analysed and triangulated to facilitate better understanding of impact of eHealth tools on health worker knowledge, quality and efficiency of health systems and client outcomes.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approvals were obtained from the University of Leeds and three States' Ministries of Health in Nigeria. All data collected for this study will be anonymised and reports will not contain information that could identify respondents. Study findings will be presented to Ministries of Health at scientific conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN32105372; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development of an mHealth platform for HIV Care: Gathering User Perspectives Through Co-Design Workshops and Interviews.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite advances in testing and treatment, HIV incidence rates within European countries are at best stable or else increasing. mHealth technology has been advocated to increase quality and cost-effectiveness of health services while dealing with growing patient numbers. However, studies suggested that mHealth apps are rarely adopted and often considered to be of low quality by users. Only a few studies (conducted in the United States) have involved people living with HIV (PLWH) in the design of mHealth.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to facilitate a co-design process among PLWH and clinicians across 5 clinical sites in the European Union to inform the development of an mHealth platform to be integrated into clinical care pathways. We aimed to (1) elicit experiences of living with HIV and of working in HIV care, (2) identify mHealth functionalities that are considered useful for HIV care, and (3) identify potential benefits as well as concerns about mHealth.
METHODS: Between January and June 2016, 14 co-design workshops and 22 semistructured interviews were conducted, involving 97 PLWH and 63 clinicians. Data were analyzed thematically and iteratively, drawing on grounded theory techniques.
RESULTS: Findings were established into 3 thematic clusters: (1) approaching the mHealth platform, (2) imagining the mHealth platform, and (3) anticipating the mHealth platform's implications. Co-design participants approached the mHealth platform with pre-existing concerns arising from their experiences of receiving or providing care. PLWH particularly addressed issues of stigma and questioned how mHealth could enable them to manage their HIV. Clinicians problematized the compatibility of mHealth with existing information technology systems and questioned which patients should be targeted by mHealth. Imagining the potential of mHealth for HIV care, co-design participants suggested medical functionalities (accessing test results, managing medicines and appointments, and digital communication channels), social functionalities (peer support network, international travel, etc), and general features (security and privacy, credibility, language, etc). Co-design participants also anticipated potential implications of mHealth for self-management and the provision of care.
CONCLUSIONS: Our approach to co-design enabled us to facilitate early engagement in the mHealth platform, enabling patient and clinician feedback to become embedded in the development process at a preprototype phase. Although the technologies in question were not yet present, understanding how users approach, imagine, and anticipate technology formed an important source of knowledge and proved highly significant within the technology design and development process.
Label Included: 0

Title: Anxiety, Incentives, and Adherence to Self-Monitoring on a Mobile Health Platform: A Naturalistic Longitudinal Cohort Study in People With Headache.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate factors associated naturalistically with adherence to a mobile headache diary.
BACKGROUND: Self-monitoring (keeping a headache diary) is commonly used in headache to enhance diagnostic accuracy and evaluate the effectiveness of headache therapies. Mobile applications are increasingly used to facilitate keeping a headache diary. Little is known about the factors associated with adherence to mobile headache diaries.
METHODS: In this naturalistic longitudinal cohort study, people with headache (n = 1561) registered to use Curelator Headache® (now called N1-Headache®), an application that includes a mobile headache diary, through their physician (coupon), or directly through the website or app store using either a paid or free version of the application. Participants completed baseline questionnaires and were asked to complete daily recordings of headache symptoms and other factors for at least 90 days. Baseline questionnaires included headache characteristics and migraine disability. Daily recordings included headache symptoms and anxiety ratings. Adherence to keeping the headache diary was conceptualized as completion (kept the headache diary for 90 days), adherence rate (proportion of diary days completed 90 days after registration), and completion delay (the number of days past 90 days after registration required to complete 90 days of headache diary).
RESULTS: The majority of participants reported migraine as the most common headache type (90.0%), and reported an average of 30.8 headache days/90 days (SD = 24.2). One-third of participants completed 90 days of headache diary (32.4%). Endorsing higher daily anxiety scores (8/10 OR = 0.97 [95% CI = 0.96, 0.99]; 10/10 OR = 0.96 [95% CI = 0.91, 0.99]) was associated with lower odds of completion, whereas higher age (OR = 1.04 [95% CI = 1.03, 1.05]), and downloading the app paid vs free (OR = 4.27 [95% CI = 2.62, 7.06]), paid vs coupon (OR = 2.43, 95% CI = 1.41, 4.26]), or through a physician coupon vs free (OR = 1.75 [95% CI = 1.27, 2.42]) were associated with higher odds of completion. The median adherence rate at 90 days was 0.34 (IQR = 0.10-0.88), indicating that half of participants kept 34 or fewer days 90 diary days after registration. Endorsing high daily anxiety scores (5/10 OR = 0.98 [95% CI = 0.97, 1.00]; 8/10 OR = 0.96 [95% CI = 0.94, 0.98]; 10/10 OR = 0.96 [9% CI = 0.92, 0.98]) and higher age (OR = 1.05 [95% CI = 1.04, 1.07]) were associated with lower odds of adhering at 90 days, whereas downloading the app paid vs free (OR = 9.63 [95% CI = 4.61, 25.51]), paid vs coupon (OR = 2.39, 95% CI = 1.27, 5.10]), or through a physician coupon vs free (OR = 4.01 [95% CI = 2.54, 7.26]) were associated with higher odds of adhering at 90 days. Among completers, the median completion delay was 6.0 days (IQR = 2.0-15.0). Among completers, endorsing high daily anxiety scores (9/10 OR = 1/06 [95% CI = 1.01, 1.12]) and younger age (OR = 0.98 [95% CI = 0.97, 1.00]) was associated with completion delay; downloading the app through physician coupon vs free (OR = 0.40 [95% CI = 0.22, 0.71]) or paid vs free (OR = 0.38 [95% CI = 0.20, 0.72]) was associated with lower odds of completing 90 diary days in 90 calendar days.
CONCLUSION: This naturalistic observational study confirmed evidence from clinical observation and research: adherence to mobile headache diaries is a challenge for a significant proportion of people with headache. Endorsing higher levels of daily anxiety, younger age, and downloading the app for free (vs either paying for the self-monitoring app or receiving a physician referral coupon) were associated with poorer adherence to keeping a mobile headache diary.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital health, gender and health equity: invisible imperatives.
Abstract: A growing body of evidence shows the use of digital technologies in health-referred to as eHealth, mHealth or 'digital health'-is improving and saving lives in low- and middle-income countries. Despite this prevalent and persistent narrative, very few studies examine its effects on health equity, gender and power dynamics. This journal supplement addresses these invisible imperatives by going beyond traditional measures of coverage, efficacy and cost-effectiveness associated with digital health interventions, to unpack different experiences of health workers and beneficiaries. The collection of papers presents findings from a cohort of implementation research projects in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East, and two commentaries offer observations from learning-oriented evaluative activities across the entire cohort. The story emerging from this cohort is comprised of three themes: (i) digital health can positively influence health equity; (ii) gender and power analyses are essential; and (iii) digital health can be used to strengthen upward and downward accountability. These findings, at the individual project level and at the level of the cohort, provide encouraging recommendations on how to approach the design, implementation and evaluation of digital health interventions to address the Sustainable Development Goals agenda of leaving no one behind.
Label Included: 0

Title: Information System Maturity Models in Healthcare.
Abstract: The use of information systems in healthcare (HIS) has been recognised as having crucial importance in improving the efficiency, cost-effectiveness, quality, and safety of medical care delivery. HIS has the potential to improve individuals' health and providers' performance by producing better quality, cost savings, and greater patient involvement in their own health. There have been two major drivers for the HIS investments in healthcare: The ever-increasing burden from chronic disease with costs growing significantly faster and the recognition of the need for greatly improved quality and safety in health delivery. Maturity models (MM) are based on the premises that people, organizations, functional areas and processes evolve through a process of development or growth towards a more advanced maturity, going through a distinct number of levels. Through a state-of-the-art review of HIS, focused on their maturity state, we identify and characterize a set of critical factors recognized as determinants in the context of HIS maturity. The article identifies a broad spectrum of MM applied to the health sector and its characteristics and reinforces the belief that the maturity of HIS can contribute to the quality of information and knowledge management in the sector.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluation of the Home Blood Pressure Telemonitoring and Pharmacist Case Management to Control Hypertension (Hyperlink) Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pharmacist-managed (team-based) care for hypertension with home blood pressure monitoring support interventions have been widely studied and shown to be effective in improving rates of hypertension control and lowering blood pressure; however, few studies have evaluated the economic considerations related to bringing these programs into usual practice.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the economic outcomes of the Blood Pressure Telemonitoring and Pharmacist Management on Blood Pressure (Hyperlink) study, a cluster randomized controlled trial which used home blood pressure telemonitoring and pharmacist case management to achieve better blood pressure control in patients with uncontrolled hypertension.
METHODS: A prospective analysis compared differences in medical costs and encounters in the Hyperlink telemonitoring intervention and usual care groups in the 12 months pre- and post-enrollment using medical and pharmacy insurance claims from a health care sector perspective. Generalized estimating equation models were used to estimate differences between groups over time. These results, combined with previously published prospective study results on intervention costs and blood pressure outcomes, were used to estimate cost-effectiveness measures for blood pressure control and reduction.
FINDINGS: Total medical costs in the intervention group were lower compared with the usual care group by an average of $281 per person, but this difference was not statistically significant. Clinic-based office visit, radiology, pharmacy, and hospital costs were also non-significantly lower in the intervention group. Statistically significant differences were found in lipid-related laboratory costs (higher) and in hypertension- (higher) and lipid-related (lower) pharmacy costs. Patterns in medical costs were similar for medical encounters. On average, the intervention cost $7337 per person achieving hypertension control and $139 or $265 per mm Hg reduction in systolic or diastolic blood pressure, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Home blood pressure monitoring and pharmacist case management to improve hypertension care can be implemented without increasing, and potentially reducing, overall medical care costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Combining the benefits of tele-rehabilitation and virtual reality-based balance training: a systematic review on feasibility and effectiveness.
Abstract: PURPOSE: A motivational surrounding is desirable in stroke rehabilitation considering the need to train repetitively to improve balance, even after discharge from rehabilitation facilities. This review aims to investigate whether it is feasible to combine virtual reality (VR) which allows exercising in game-like environments with tele-rehabilitation in a community-dwelling stroke population.
METHODS: Literature searches were conducted in five databases, for example, PubMed and the Cochrane Library. Randomized controlled trial (RCT) and non-RCT investigating feasibility and effectiveness of VR-based tele-rehabilitation were included. Based on the risk of bias and study design, methodological quality is ranked according to the GRADE guidelines.
RESULTS: Seven studies (n = 120) were included, of which four are RCTs. Evidence regarding therapy adherence and perceived enjoyment of VR, as well as a cost-benefit of tele-rehabilitation emphasizes feasibility. Equal effects are reported comparing this approach to a therapist-supervised intervention in the clinical setting on balance and functional mobility.
CONCLUSIONS: Tele-rehabilitation could be a promising tool to overcome burdens that restrict accessibility to rehabilitation in the future. VR can increase motivation allowing longer and more training sessions in community-dwelling stroke survivors. Therefore, combining the benefits of both approaches seems convenient. Although evidence is still sparse, functional improvements seem to be equal compared to a similar intervention with therapist-supervision in the clinic, suggesting that for cost-efficient rehabilitation parts of therapy can be transferred to the homes. Implications for rehabilitation The use of tele-rehabilitation could be a promising tool to overcome burdens that restrict the access of stroke survivors to long-term rehabilitative care. VR-based interventions are game-like and therefore seem to provide a motivational environment which allows longer exercise sessions and greater adherence to therapy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Ear, nose, and throat surgical access for remote living Indigenous children: What is the least costly model?
Abstract: RATIONALE, AIMS, AND OBJECTIVES: This costing evaluation compares three service delivery models for ear, nose, and throat (ENT) surgery for remote living Indigenous children to improve their hearing outcomes, with the aim to identify the least costly model.
METHODS: The main outcome measure presented was the incremental cost difference between the base case (Model 1) and two alternative models (Model 2, 3). The costs in 2017 Australian dollars are assessed from two viewpoints: (1) health system perspective, and (2) patients and their families including travel out-of-pocket expenses, presented separately according to the funding source.
RESULTS: Findings indicate that the least costly model offered low-risk ENT surgery from a state funded hospital in a remote setting, with high use of videoconference technology: TeleHealth (Model 3) could save $3626 to $5067 per patient, compared with patients travelling to a regional centre public hospital (Model 1). A federally funded scheme which allowed groups of patients to access a direct flight charter transfer to the private hospital in regional centre (Model 2) reduced the cost by $2178 to $2711 per patient when compared with standard care (Model 1). From a societal perspective, Model 1 required out-of-pocket patient expenses, with greater time away from home, and hence appears the least preferred option.
CONCLUSIONS: The sensitivity analyses also demonstrate that Model 3 would be the more economical model for providing ENT surgery for remote living children. By proving an accurate assessment of the true costs of delivering these important ear and hearing health services, strategic health service planners may be better informed and sufficient budgets can be allocated to provide improved service delivery. The benefits of Model 3, over Models 1 or 2, would also incorporate improvements to patient safety as a result of reducing patient travel, which should in-turn, reduce failure-to-attend rates.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote Monitoring of Patients With Heart Failure: A White Paper From the Heart Failure Society of America Scientific Statements Committee.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: After several neutral telehealth trials, the positive findings and subsequent Food and Drug Administration approval of an implantable pulmonary arterial pressure monitor (PAPM) led to renewed interest in remote patient monitoring (RPM). Here we seek to provide contemporary guidance on the appropriate use of RPM technology.
RESULTS: Although early trials of external RPM devices suggested benefit, subsequent multicenter trials failed to demonstrate improved outcomes. Monitoring features of cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) also did not deliver improved HF outcomes, newer, multisensor algorithms may be better. Earlier technologies using direct pressure measurement via implanted devices failed to show benefit owing to complications or failure. Recently, 1 PAPM showed benefit in a randomized controlled trial. Although not showing cost reduction, cost-benefit analysis of that device suggests that it may meet acceptable standards. Additional research is warranted and is in progress. Consumer-owned electronic devices are becoming more pervasive and hold hope for future benefit in HF management. Practical aspects around RPM technology include targeting of risk populations, having mechanisms to ensure patient adherence to monitoring, and health care team structures that act on the data.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on available evidence, routine use of external RPM devices is not recommended. Implanted devices that monitor pulmonary arterial pressure and/or other parameters may be beneficial in selected patients or when used in structured programs, but the value of these devices in routine care requires further study. Future research is also warranted to better understand the cost-effectiveness of these devices.
Label Included: 0

Title: Security and Other Ethical Concerns of Instant Messaging in Healthcare.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: There is a growing body of evidence highlighting the benefits of mobile health in terms of cost effectiveness, efficiency and patient satisfaction. These benefits have been further enhanced through the development of Instant Messaging (IM) applications (apps) that enable the transmission of images and text messages. The aim of this paper is to review the use of IM in clinical services, and to understand the medico legal concerns with regard to the security and management of protected health information on doctors' phones.
METHOD: PubMed was searched using the various IM apps as a search term. Inclusion criteria were that the paper was in English and described the use of IM in a clinical service.
RESULTS: 39 papers met the inclusion criteria. Data are at risk at several levels, including during transmission, storage on servers en route, and on the sender's and receiver's phones. Consent is seldom obtained for instant messaging, and confidentiality, privacy, data security and record keeping remain areas of concern.
CONCLUSION: The use of IM, and in particular WhatsApp, is now commonplace amongst clinicians and used extensively across different clinical services. Security concerns have created barriers preventing the global adoption of IM in healthcare. Guidelines in the management and use of IM need to be developed in order to prevent the unwanted consequences of non-compliance by uninformed clinicians. With improved security, IM has proven to be a viable option in the developing world.
Label Included: 0

Title: Strengthening Delivery of Health Services Using Digital Devices.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Delivery of high-quality efficient health services is a cornerstone of the global agenda to achieve universal health coverage. According to the World Health Organization, health service delivery is considered good when equitable access to a comprehensive range of high-quality health services is ensured within an integrated and person-centered continuum of care. However, good health service delivery can be challenging in low-resource settings. In this review, we summarize and discuss key advances in health service delivery, particularly in the context of using digital health strategies for mitigating human resource constraints.
METHODS: The review updates the foundational systematic review conducted by Agarwal et al. in 2015. We used PubMed, EMBASE, and CINAHL to find relevant English-language peer-reviewed articles published 2018. Our search strategy for MEDLINE was based on MeSH (medical subject headings) terms and text words of key articles that we identified a priori. Our search identified 92 articles. After screening, we selected 24 articles for abstract review, of which only 6 met the eligibility criteria and were ultimately included in this review.
RESULTS: Despite encouraging advances in the evidence base on digital strategies for health service delivery, the current body of evidence is still quite limited in 3 main areas: the effectiveness of interventions on health outcomes, improvement in health system efficiencies for service delivery, and the human capacity required to implement and support digital health strategies at scale. Two particular areas, digital health-enhanced referral coordination and mobile clinical decision support systems, demonstrate considerable potential to improve the quality and comprehensiveness of care received by patients, but they require a greater level of standardization and an expanded scope of health worker engagement across the health system in order to scale them up effectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Additional research is urgently needed to inform the effectiveness of interventions on health outcomes, improvement in health system efficiencies, and cost-effectiveness of service delivery. In particular, more documentation and research on ways to standardize and engage health workers in digital referral and clinical decision support systems can provide the foundation needed to scale these promising approaches in low- and middle-income settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: The State of Digital Interventions for Demand Generation in Low- and Middle-Income Countries: Considerations, Emerging Approaches, and Research Gaps.
Abstract: The recent introduction of digital health into generating demand for health commodities and services has provided practitioners with an expanded universe of potential tools to strengthen demand and ensure service delivery receipt. However, considerable gaps remain in our understanding of which interventions are effective, which characteristics mediate their benefit for different target populations and health domains, and what is necessary to ensure effective deployment. This paper first provides an overview of the types of digital health interventions for demand generation, including untargeted client communication, client-to-client communication, on-demand information services, personal health tracking, client financial transactions, and targeted client communication. It then provides a general overview of 118 studies published between January 1, 2010, and October 3, 2017, that used digital interventions to generate demand for health interventions. The majority (61%) of these studies used targeted client communication to provide health education or reminders to improve treatment adherence, and the most frequently (27%) studied health condition was HIV/AIDS. Intervention characteristics that have been found to have some effect on gains in demand generation include modality, directionality, tailoring, phrasing, and schedule. The paper also explores new emergent digital approaches that expand the potential effect of traditional demand generation in terms of personalization of content and services, continuity of care, and accountability tracking. Applying existing frameworks for monitoring and evaluation and reporting, research on emerging approaches will need to consider not only their feasibility but also their effectiveness in achieving demand generation outcomes. We propose a research agenda to help guide the field of digital demand generation studies and programs within a broader health systems strengthening agenda, including establishing and documenting the influence of intervention characteristics within different populations and health domains and examining the long-term effects and cost-effectiveness of digital demand generation interventions, as well as equity in access to such interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effects and costs of home-based rehabilitation for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction: The REACH-HF multicentre randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation improves health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and reduces hospitalizations in patients with heart failure, but international uptake of cardiac rehabilitation for heart failure remains low.
DESIGN AND METHODS: The aim of this multicentre randomized trial was to compare the REACH-HF (Rehabilitation EnAblement in CHronicHeart Failure) intervention, a facilitated self-care and home-based cardiac rehabilitation programme to usual care for adults with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). The study primary hypothesis was that the addition of the REACH-HF intervention to usual care would improve disease-specific HRQoL (Minnesota Living with Heart Failure questionnaire (MLHFQ)) at 12 months compared with usual care alone.
RESULTS: The study recruited 216 participants, predominantly men (78%), with an average age of 70 years and mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 34%. Overall, 185 (86%) participants provided data for the primary outcome. At 12 months, there was a significant and clinically meaningful between-group difference in the MLHFQ score of -5.7 points (95% confidence interval -10.6 to -0.7) in favour of the REACH-HF intervention group ( p = 0.025). With the exception of patient self-care ( p < 0.001) there was no significant difference in other secondary outcomes, including clinical events ( p > 0.05) at follow-up compared with usual care. The mean cost of the REACH-HF intervention was £418 per participant.
CONCLUSIONS: The novel REACH-HF home-based facilitated intervention for HFrEF was clinically superior in disease-specific HRQoL at 12 months and offers an affordable alternative to traditional centre-based programmes to address current low cardiac rehabilitation uptake rates for heart failure.
Label Included: 0

Title: Update of Recent Literature on Remotely Delivered Psychotherapy Interventions for Anxiety and Depression.
Abstract: Introduction:Anxiety and depression are harmful to individuals suffering from these disorders, their caregivers, and the economy. Remote delivery of psychotherapy has been established as a viable alternative to traditional in-person psychotherapy for treating anxiety and depression. However, literature comparing and evaluating the variety of remote delivery modalities of psychotherapy has not yet been integrated. This review examines the efficacy, practicality, and limitations of telephone, video, and online-administered psychotherapy for the treatment of anxiety and depression.Methods:A comprehensive literature search conducted using PubMed and PsycINFO included systematic reviews, randomized controlled trials, and cost-analysis studies focused on a remote delivery method of psychotherapy for anxiety and depression.Results:Overall, interventions delivered through telephone, video, and online modalities demonstrated good efficacy in treating anxiety and depression in general, and when presenting comorbid with other disorders. The literature also suggested that telehealth psychotherapy is accessible, convenient, and cost-effective. However, there is less evidence for video-delivered psychotherapy for anxiety and depression compared with telephone-administered and online-administered modalities. Despite this, overall, the efficacy and practical benefits of remote psychotherapy interventions in treating anxiety and depression across a diverse range of patient groups suggested that it is an appropriate alternative for those who cannot access in-person psychotherapy.Conclusions:Further research evaluating the efficacy and practical benefits of video-delivered psychotherapy for anxiety and depression is much needed for patients with limited access to in-person psychological care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of a store-and-forward teledermatology consult system in Philadelphia.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Store-and-forward (SAF) teledermatology (TD) has the potential to increase access to timely, high-quality care for underserved populations. However, the cost-effectiveness of TD for underserved populations is uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: This study evaluates the potential cost savings associated with an SAF TD program implemented for an underserved population in the city health clinics of urban Philadelphia.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of SAF TD consultations for 700 outpatients managed in 12 Philadelphia primary care clinics. Primary care providers were asked to specify a treatment plan, as well as the type of care for the patient, in the absence of the TD service. Analysis compared the cost of each patient case with use of the TD consult model versus with conventional care.
RESULTS: In all, 27% of in-person dermatology clinic visits (189 of 700) and 3.29% of emergency room visits (23 of 700) were avoided by using TD. Compared with conventional care, TD had a mean expected cost savings of $10.00 to $52.65 per TD consult. In sensitivity analyses, these estimated savings remained positive across a range of parameters.
LIMITATIONS: The cost analysis relies on several assumptions regarding the cost of care, and indirect costs were not included.
CONCLUSION: TD can be a cost-saving model while increasing access to dermatologic care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth-Delivered Opioid Agonist Therapy for the Treatment of Adults with Opioid Use Disorder: Review of Clinical Effectiveness, Cost-Effectiveness, and Guidelines
Abstract: This Rapid Response report aims to review the effectiveness of the use of telehealth-delivered opioid agonist therapy (OAT) compared to standard OAT. Cost-effectiveness and evidence-based guidelines regarding the use of telehealth-delivered OAT for the treatment of opioid use disorders will also be examined.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of implementing mHealth intervention for maternal, newborn & child health care through community health workers: assessment of ReMIND program in Uttar Pradesh, India.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The main intervention under ReMiND program consisted of a mobile health application which was used by community health volunteers, called ASHAs, for counselling pregnant women and nursing mothers. This program was implemented in two rural blocks in Uttar Pradesh state of India with an overall aim to increase quality of health care, thereby increasing utilization of maternal & child health services. The aim of the study was to assess annual & unit cost of ReMiND program and its scale up in UP state.
METHOD AND MATERIALS: Economic costing was done from the health system and patient's perspectives. All resources used during designing & planning phase i.e., development of application; and implementation of the intervention, were quantified and valued. Capital costs were annualised, after assessing their average number of years for which a product could be used and accounting for its depreciation. Shared or joint costs were apportioned for the time value a resource was utilized under intervention. Annual cost of implementing ReMiND in two blocks of UP along and unit cost per pregnant woman were estimated. Scale-up cost for implementing the intervention in entire state was calculated under two scenarios - first, if no extra human resource were employed; and second, if the state government adopted the same pattern of human resource as employed under this program.
RESULTS: The annual cost for rolling out ReMiND in two blocks of district Kaushambi was INR 12.1 million (US $ 191,894). The annualised start-up cost constituted 9% of overall cost while rest of cost was attributed to implementation of the intervention. The health system program costs in ReMiND were estimated to be INR 31.4 (US $ 0.49) per capita per year and INR 1294 (US $ 20.5) per registered women. The per capita incremental cost of scale up of intervention in UP state was estimated to be INR 4.39 (US $ 0.07) when no additional supervisory staffs were added.
CONCLUSION: The cost of scale up of ReMiND in Uttar Pradesh is 6% of annual budget for 'reproductive and child health' line item under state budget, and hence appears to be financially sustainable.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implantable devices to monitor patients with heart failure.
Abstract: Reducing heart failure hospitalizations represents a major challenge for modern clinicians. Early detection of congestion plays a key role in disease management strategy. Apart from traditional methods (patient reporting symptoms, body weight monitoring), novel home-care strategies allow guided adjustments in medical therapy through telemonitoring embedded in cardiac electronic implantable devices or through stand-alone diagnostic devices for hemodynamic monitoring. Wireless pulmonary artery pressure monitoring seems to reduce re-admission risk and is currently approved for this purpose in patients with heart failure. Multiparameter monitoring is also appealing and could be a valuable tool in managing these patients. However, invasive techniques face several safety concerns and cost-effectiveness issues. Therefore, quest for future research and emerging technologies is necessary.
Label Included: 0

Title: Examining the Return on Investment of the Breath of Life Mobile Pediatric Asthma Clinic in a Rural Region with Small Metropolitan Statistical Areas.
Abstract: The current study sought to examine the return on investment (ROI) of a mobile pediatric asthma clinic in a rural region with small metropolitan statistical areas, in terms of reduced costs attributed to preventable emergency department visits, inpatient admission, school absenteeism, cost of education, and parent work absenteeism. For fiscal years 2015 and 2016, an average return of $1.32 and a community ROI of $1.45 was estimated. Estimated benefits were $445,125.00 and cost avoidance was $263,853.01. A mobile pediatric asthma clinics operating in less densely populated regions is able to yield a positive ROI.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Development of a Mobile Application to Support Peripheral Health Workers to Diagnose and Treat People with Skin Diseases in Resource-Poor Settings.
Abstract: The high prevalence of skin diseases in resource-poor settings, where health workers with sufficient knowledge of skin diseases are scarce, calls for innovative measures. Timely diagnosis and treatment of skin diseases, especially neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) that manifest with skin lesions, such as leprosy, is crucial to prevent disabilities as well as psychological and socioeconomic problems. Innovative technological methods like telemedicine and mobile health (mHealth) can help to bridge the gap between the burden of skin diseases and the lack of capable staff in resource-poor settings by bringing essential health services from central level closer to peripheral levels. Netherlands Leprosy Relief (NLR) has developed a mobile phone application called the 'SkinApp', which aims to support peripheral health workers to recognize the early signs and symptoms of skin diseases, including skin NTDs, and to start treatment promptly or refer for more advanced diagnostic testing or disease management when needed. Further research is needed to determine how greatly mHealth in general and the SkinApp in particular can contribute to improved health outcomes, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Incorporating telemedicine into the integrated care of the COPD patient a summary of an interdisciplinary workshop held in Stresa, Italy, 7-8 September 2017.
Abstract: This report is a summary of a workshop focusing on using telemedicine to facilitate the integrated care of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Twenty-five invited participants from 8 countries met for one and one-half days in Stresa, Italy on 7-8 September 2017, to discuss this topic. Participants included physiotherapists, nurses, a nurse practitioner, and physicians. While evidence-based data are always at the center of sound inference and recommendations, at this point in time the science behind telemedicine in COPD remains under-developed; therefore, this document reflects expert opinion and consensus. While telemedicine has great potential to expand and improve the care of our COPD patients, its application is still in its infancy. While studies have demonstrated its effectiveness in some patient-centered outcomes, the results are by no means consistently positive. Whereas this tool may potentially reduce health care costs by moving some medical interventions from centralized locations in to patient's home, its cost-effectiveness has had mixed results and telemonitoring has yet to prove its worth in the COPD population. These discordant results should not be unexpected in view of patient complexity and the heterogeneity of telemedicine. This is reflected in the very limited support offered by the National Health Services to a wider application of telemedicine in the integrated care of COPD patients. However, this situation should challenge us to develop the necessary science to clarify the role of telemedicine in the medical management of our patients, providing a better and definitive scientific basis to this approach.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using mHealth to Deliver a Home-Based Testing and Counseling Program to Improve Linkage to Care and ART Adherence in Rural South Africa.
Abstract: Community-based HIV testing and counseling (HTC) programs have become an important part of the healthcare system in South Africa and other low- and middle-income countries with a high HIV prevalence and strained primary healthcare system. Current HTC programs excel at identifying people living with HIV (PLH) but leave gaps in linkage to care and antiretroviral therapy (ART) as most HTC programs do not have the capacity to ensure that linkage has occurred. This article presents the protocol for an mHealth study, that is, pilot testing a mobile platform in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), South Africa, to improve linkage to care and ART adherence after home-based HTC. Testing data are shared with designated clinics. PLH are identified using fingerprint scans, mobile numbers, or South African IDs. If PLH do not present at a designated clinic after testing HIV positive, study field staff are sent SMS alerts to prompt follow-up visits. Similarly, if PLH do not refill ART prescriptions after their initial 1-month dose runs out, SMS alerts that are sent to field staff. This paper presents the mHealth study protocol and baseline sample characteristics (N = 101 PLH). Analyses will summarize rates of linkage to care and ART prescription refills. Cost-effectiveness analyses will examine the costs and benefits of linkage and ART adherence using our mHealth system. Linkage to care rates will be compared between our study and a historical control, that is, provided by a prior HTC program that was conducted in KZN without our mHealth system (n = 615).
Label Included: 0

Title: Development of mWellcare: an mHealth intervention for integrated management of hypertension and diabetes in low-resource settings.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases and diabetes are among the leading causes of premature adult deaths in India. Innovative approaches such as clinical decision support (CDS) software could play a major role in improving the quality of hypertension/diabetes care in primary care settings.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the steps and processes in the development of mWellcare, a complex intervention based on mobile health (mHealth) technology.
METHODS: The Medical Research Council framework was used to develop mWellcare in four steps: (1) identify gaps in usual care through literature review and health facility assessments; (2) identify the components of the intervention through discussions and consultations with experts; (3) develop intervention (clinical algorithms and mHealth system); and (4) evaluate acceptability and feasibility through pilot testing in five community health centers.
RESULTS: Lack of evidence-based, integrated, and systematic management of chronic conditions were major gaps identified. Experts in information technology, clinical fields, and public health professionals identified intervention components to address these gaps. Thereafter, clinical algorithm contextualized to primary care settings were prepared and the mWellcare intervention was developed. During the 2-month pilot, 631 patients diagnosed with hypertension and/or diabetes were registered, with a follow-up rate of 36.2%. The major barrier was resistance to follow mWellcare recommended patient workflow, and to overcome it, we emphasized onsite training and orientation program to cover all health care team member in each CHC.
CONCLUSION: A pilot-tested mWellcare intervention is an mHealth system with important components, i.e. integrated management of chronic conditions, evidence-based CDS, longitudinal health data and automated short-messaging service to reinforce compliance to drug intake and follow-up visit, which will be used by nurses at primary health care settings in India. The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the intervention will be tested through a cluster randomized trial (trial registration number NCT02480062).
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine on the rise but lagging in Canada.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: The cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of at-home infrared temperature monitoring in reducing the incidence of foot ulcer recurrence in patients with diabetes (DIATEMP): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Home monitoring of foot temperatures in high-risk diabetes patients proves to be a promising approach for early recognition and treatment of pre-signs of ulceration, and thereby ulcer prevention. Despite previous studies demonstrating its efficacy, it is currently not widely applied in (Dutch) health care.
METHODS: In a multicenter, outcome-assessor-blinded, randomized controlled trial, 304 patients with diabetes mellitus types I or II, loss of protective sensation based on peripheral neuropathy, and a history of foot ulceration in the preceding 4 years or a diagnosis of Charcot neuro-osteoarthropathy will be included. Enhanced therapy will consist of usual care and additional at-home daily measurement of foot temperatures at six to eight predefined locations on the foot. If a contralateral foot temperature difference of > 2.2 °C is found on two consecutive days, the participant is instructed to contact their podiatrist for further foot diagnosis or treatment, and to reduce ambulatory activity by 50% until temperatures are normalized. Enhanced therapy will be compared to usual care. The primary outcomes are the cost (savings) per patient without a foot ulcer (i.e., cost-effectiveness) and per quality-adjusted life year gained (i.e., cost-utility). The primary clinical outcome in the study is the proportion of patients with foot ulcer recurrence on the plantar foot, apical surfaces of the toes, the interdigital spaces or medial and lateral forefoot surfaces during 18-month follow-up.
DISCUSSION: Confirmation of the efficacy of at-home foot temperature monitoring in ulcer prevention, together with assessing its usability, cost-effectiveness and cost-utility, could lead to implementation in Dutch health care, and in many settings across the world.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Registration: NTR5403 . Registered on 8 September 2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tele-expertise for diagnosis of skin lesions is cost-effective in a prison setting: A retrospective cohort study of 450 patients.
Abstract: CONTEXT: The prevalence of skin diseases among prisoners is higher than in the general population. Diagnosing and treating these lesions require a dermatologic advice. A tele-expertise network in dermatology for prisoners including 8 health facilities in prison and 2 hospital dermatological departments was developed to improve access to dermatologists' expertise in correctional facilities. Our objective was to evaluate the effectiveness and costs of tele-expertise in dermatology for prisoners.
METHODS: We carried out a retrospective cohort study on data collected by the information system of the tele-expertise network. We used the MAST (Model for ASsessment of Telemedicine) model to perform a multidimensional assessment including the proportion of patients with a completed treatment plan for the skin lesions, the proportion of technical problems, the quality of the pictures, the investment and operating costs and the satisfaction of the professionals.
RESULTS: Mean patient age was 34.2 years with 90% men. 511 requests for 450 patients were initiated. The delay from the connection to the tele-expertise software to the validation of the request was inferior to 7 min for 50% of the requests and inferior to 30 min for 85% of the requests. Overall, with tele-expertise, 82% of the patients had a completed treatment plan for the skin lesions, with 2.9% of all patients requiring a later face-to-face appointment or hospitalization, to be compared to a proportion of 35% of patients with a completed treatment plan when tele-expertise was not available. The most frequent lesions were acnea (22%) and atopic dermatitis (18%). The mean cost for one completed treatment plan was €184 by tele-expertise and €315 without tele-expertise. Tele-expertise was well accepted among physicians with all responders (n = 9) willing to continue using it.
CONCLUSION: Tele-expertise is a dominant intervention in comparison to a face-to face consultation taking into account the cost of transportation and the proportion of canceled appointments and is acceptable for physicians.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02309905.
Label Included: 0

Title: Herpes Zoster: Epidemiological Links With Stroke and Myocardial Infarction.
Abstract: Routine data from electronic health records (EHRs) provide insights into links between herpes zoster (HZ) and cardiovascular complications such as stroke or myocardial infarction (MI) in different populations worldwide. Evidence from large EHR studies using both self-controlled case series and traditional cohort designs suggests that there is a transient increase in the risk of stroke after HZ, which gradually resolves over 6-12 months. In these studies, herpes zoster ophthalmicus was associated with a higher risk of stroke than HZ at other sites. A larger effect size was seen in people aged under 40 years. Existing studies also suggest that HZ may have a triggering effect on MI, although fewer studies examined this outcome. Further evidence is needed on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of vaccine and antiviral drugs to reduce cardiovascular complications after HZ from studies that are designed to minimize selection biases and confounding by indication.
Label Included: 0

Title: Financial implications of telemedicine visits in an academic endocrine surgery program.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine is an emerging medium for the delivery of ambulatory care, but the reimbursement profile of telemedicine visits in the surgical setting has not been well studied.
METHODS: A retrospective assessment of telemedicine encounters for thyroid and parathyroid conditions occurring from April 2015 to April 2017 was performed. Financial reimbursement from commercial payers for new and established patient visits were compared between telemedicine visits and in-person visits. Patient "savings" in terms of travel distance and drive time were calculated.
RESULTS: A total of 290 telemedicine encounters were conducted; 7% were initial consultations, 47% were postoperative visits, and 45% were follow-up visits. The median patient age was 57 years. The median round-trip travel distance saved was 123.6 miles with estimated drive time of 2.4 hours per encounter. In 2% of cases, a second in-person visit within the 90-day global period occurred after a postoperative telemedicine encounter. Charges were filed for 67 encounters. The initial unpaid claims rate was 6%, which was consistent with the unpaid claims rate for in-person visits. The charge-to-collection ratio was comparable to that of in-person visits. There was a higher ratio of level 2 visits in the telemedicine encounters. Over the study period, 70 clinic hours were liberated via the use of telemedicine.
CONCLUSION: Endocrine surgery telemedicine visits have the same level for level reimbursement profile as in-person visits. Down-coding and elimination of components of in-office physical examinations may lead to modest decreases in overall reimbursement. Other advantages include reallocation of clinic resources and decreased travel burden for patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Multicentred randomised controlled trial of an augmented exercise referral scheme using web-based behavioural support in individuals with metabolic, musculoskeletal and mental health conditions: protocol for the e-coachER trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Physical activity is recommended for improving health among people with common chronic conditions such as obesity, diabetes, hypertension, osteoarthritis and low mood. One approach to promote physical activity is via primary care exercise referral schemes (ERS). However, there is limited support for the effectiveness of ERS for increasing long-term physical activity and additional interventions are needed to help patients overcome barriers to ERS uptake and adherence.This study aims to determine whether augmenting usual ERS with web-based behavioural support, based on the LifeGuide platform, will increase long-term physical activity for patients with chronic physical and mental health conditions, and is cost-effective.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A multicentre parallel two-group randomised controlled trial with 1:1 individual allocation to usual ERS alone (control) or usual ERS plus web-based behavioural support (intervention) with parallel economic and mixed methods process evaluations. Participants are low active adults with obesity, diabetes, hypertension, osteoarthritis or a history of depression, referred to an ERS from primary care in the UK.The primary outcome measure is the number of minutes of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) in ≥10 min bouts measured by accelerometer over 1 week at 12 months.We plan to recruit 413 participants, with 88% power at a two-sided alpha of 5%, assuming 20% attrition, to demonstrate a between-group difference of 36-39 min of MVPA per week at 12 months. An improvement of this magnitude represents an important change in physical activity, particularly for inactive participants with chronic conditions.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Approved by North West Preston NHS Research Ethics Committee (15/NW/0347). Dissemination will include publication of findings for the stated outcomes, parallel process evaluation and economic evaluation in peer-reviewed journals.Results will be disseminated to ERS services, primary healthcare providers and trial participants.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN15644451; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: The direct cost of pressure injuries in an Australian residential aged care setting.
Abstract: Pressure injuries have a negative effect on well-being and the cost of treatment places a significant burden on the health care system. Research has, however, tended to extrapolate or estimate the cost of pressure injuries resulting in uncertainty regarding the true cost of this condition. The aim of this prospective observational study was to quantify the cost of pressure injury treatment in the Australian residential aged care setting. An electronic health care record audit and observation of usual pressure injury treatment was undertaken with a sample of 20 participants who had 23 pressure injuries. The actual treatment cost, an evidence-based practice model cost, and a projected treatment cost were calculated. The overall cost of pressure injury treatment was AU$98,489.22. The average daily cost by pressure injury stage was AU$26.42 for a Stage 1 pressure injury, AU$37.17 for a Stage 2 pressure injury, AU$30.01 for a Stage 3 pressure injury, and AU$10.22 for an Unstageable pressure injury. The projected cost of treatment was AU$104,510.41. At 42 days this cost extended to AU$116,552.79. This study has quantified the cost of pressure injury treatment in a residential aged care setting. The study may inform future efforts to accurately calculate the cost of PIs and the effectiveness of strategies to reduce the economic burden of this condition.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of home-based vs. in-hospital treatment of paediatric tuberculous meningitis.
Abstract: SETTING: Cape Town, South Africa, 2014.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the societal costs and cost-effectiveness of home-based vs. in-hospital treatment of paediatric tuberculous meningitis.
DESIGN: This was an economic evaluation from a societal perspective using probabilistic analysis. Health care, informal care, lost productivity costs and costs in other sectors, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and family impact were assessed during interviews with care givers, children, medical staff and management.
RESULTS: Societal costs for home-based treatment were USD3857, and USD28 043 for in-hospital treatment. Home-based vs. in-hospital treatment HRQoL scores were 90.9% vs. 84.5%, while family impact scores were 94.8% vs. 73.1%. The point estimate of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio indicated that improving HRQoL and family impact by 1% was associated with a saving of respectively USD3726 and USD1140 for home-based vs. in-hospital treatment. The probability that home-based treatment was less expensive and more effective than in-hospital treatment was 96.3% for HRQoL and 100% for family impact.
CONCLUSION: Societal costs of home-based treatment were lower than for in-hospital treatment. Children treated at home had a better HRQoL and family impact scores. Home-based treatment was a cost-effective alternative to in-hospital treatment of drug-susceptible tuberculous meningitis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Re: A Cost Comparison for Telehealth Utilization in the Kidney Transplant Waitlist Evaluation Process.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Venous Thromboembolism Prophylaxis: Inadequate and Overprophylaxis When Comparing Perceived Versus Calculated Risk.
Abstract: Guidelines for venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis recommend appropriate risk stratification using risk estimation models as high risk or low risk followed by initiation of chemical or mechanical prophylaxis, respectively. We explored adherence to guidelines on the basis of the documentation of VTE prophylaxis. A retrospective medical record review of 437 consecutive adult patients (≥18 years) admitted to general medical wards under medicine service between January 1, 2015, and March 1, 2015, was performed. The primary outcome was appropriateness of risk stratification using the Padua Prediction Score. Secondary outcomes were appropriateness of type of prophylaxis (chemical vs mechanical) and cost-benefit analysis. We observed appropriate stratification based on the documented risk (compared with the calculated risk) in 54.9% of the patients (40.8% with low risk vs 72.1% with high risk; P<.001). Overall, 182 of 240 low-risk patients received unnecessary chemical prophylaxis, whereas 23 of 197 high-risk patients without contraindications for chemical prophylaxis received mechanical or no prophylaxis. No clinical VTE events were noted in the patients inappropriately assigned to mechanical or no prophylaxis. Also, 67.3% of patients with both low documented and low calculated risk and 74.5% of patients with low documented and high calculated risk received chemical prophylaxis, consistent with a tendency toward overtreatment. A total of 4068 annualized patient-days ($77,652/y) of inappropriate chemical prophylaxis were administered. In conclusion, estimation of the risk of VTE based on clinical impression was not congruent with the risk calculated using risk prediction models and was associated with a tendency toward overtreatment. These data support the inclusion of VTE risk calculators in electronic health record systems.
Label Included: 0

Title: Acceptability to patients, carers and clinicians of an mHealth platform for the management of Parkinson's disease (PD_Manager): study protocol for a pilot randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease is a degenerative neurological condition causing multiple motor and non-motor symptoms that have a serious adverse effect on quality of life. Management is problematic due to the variable and fluctuating nature of symptoms, often hourly and daily. The PD_Manager mHealth platform aims to provide a continuous feed of data on symptoms to improve clinical understanding of the status of any individual patient and inform care planning. The objectives of this trial are to (1) assess patient (and family carer) perspectives of PD_Manager regarding comfort, acceptability and ease of use; (2) assess clinician views about the utility of the data generated by PD_Manager for clinical decision making and the acceptability of the system in clinical practice.
METHODS/DESIGN: This trial is an unblinded, parallel, two-group, randomised controlled pilot study. A total of 200 persons with Parkinson's disease (Hoehn and Yahr stage 3, experiencing motor fluctuations at least 2 h per day), with primary family carers, in three countries (110 Rome, 50 Venice, Italy; 20 each in Ioannina, Greece and Surrey, England) will be recruited. Following informed consent, baseline information will be gathered, including the following: age, gender, education, attitudes to technology (patient and carer); time since Parkinson's diagnosis, symptom status and comorbidities (patient only). Randomisation will assign participants (1:1 in each country), to PD_Manager vs control, stratifying by age (1 ≤ 70 : 1 > 70) and gender (60% M: 40% F). The PD_Manager system captures continuous data on motor symptoms, sleep, activity, speech quality and emotional state using wearable devices (wristband, insoles) and a smartphone (with apps) for storing and transmitting the information. Control group participants will be asked to keep a symptom diary covering the same elements as PD_Manager records. After a minimum of two weeks, each participant will attend a consultation with a specialist doctor for review of the data gathered (by either means), and changes to management will be initiated as indicated. Patients, carers and clinicians will be asked for feedback on the acceptability and utility of the data collection methods. The PD_Manager intervention, compared to a symptom diary, will be evaluated in a cost-consequences framework.
DISCUSSION: Information gathered will inform further development of the PD_Manager system and a larger effectiveness trial.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Registry, ISRCTN17396879 . Registered on 15 March 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Financial Evaluation of the Centralized Repackaging of Intracameral Moxifloxacin for Cataract Surgery and Its Impact on Cost Reduction.
Abstract: Background: Extensive evidence-based literature supports the use of intracameral (IC) moxifloxacin for the prevention of postoperative endophthalmitis after cataract surgery. The Aurora Pharmacy Packaging Center (APPC) has developed a process for centrally preparing IC moxifloxacin. Purpose: The aim of this study was to evaluate the centralized preparation of IC moxifloxacin production for quality assurance and to quantify a potential reduction in costs. Methods: The APPC's compounding procedure of IC moxifloxacin was evaluated using United States Pharmacopeia (USP) Convention 797 standard and compared with practices described in evidence-based literature. Patients who received IC moxifloxacin intraoperatively from one of 3 ophthalmologists during cataract surgery performed between February 15, 2016, and August 15, 2016, were identified using electronic health records. Cost savings were calculated by reviewing costs associated with drug supplies used by the APPC. Results: The APPC process for the centralized preparation of IC moxifloxacin was deemed compliant with USP 797's sterile compounding standards. USP 797 validation criteria included proper sterile technique, equipment, room sterility and pressure, beyond use dating, and storage. Implementation of the centralized production of moxifloxacin reduced the direct product cost per surgery from $140 to $20 (a cost savings of $120 per surgery). There were 459 cataract surgeries analyzed during the study period, resulting in a savings of $55 080 over 6 months. Conclusion: The APPC's centralized compounding procedure was found to be compliant with pharmacy compounding standards and to yield significant cost savings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Increasing productivity with smartphone digital imagery wound measurements and analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The primary aim was to determine the productivity increase using digital imagery for better documentation and analysis. A case series was done in a specialised care centre with patients managed with advanced dressings and using state-of-the-art smartphone technology for documentation to save costs and time.
METHOD: Wounds were cleansed and debrided before using the application to photograph, document, measure and analyse the wounds. The smartphone app was oriented parallel to the plane of the wound, where possible, to obtain accurate measurements. A longitudinal study report was generated for each wound and showed the progress of the wound healing until the wound was closed.
RESULTS: A sample size of 60 patients consisting of wounds from different locations, and a total of 203 measurements and analyses were conducted over a period of seven months. The wound monitoring app proved to be effective for wound monitoring and required less than two hours' training. A report summary of wounds recorded could also be generated automatically through the dashboard. All 60 patients' cases were automatically recorded, measured and presented into reports for use in clinical analysis. There was a significant time savings (27 hours per day for a specialised care centre with 10 nurses) increase over manual wound documentation and measuring methods.
CONCLUSION: The app provided a non-contact, easy to use, reliable and accurate smart wound management solution for clinicians and physicians to track wound healing in patients. The app could also be used by patients and caregivers for home monitoring of their wounds.
Label Included: 0

Title: A school- and community-based intervention to promote healthy lifestyle and prevent type 2 diabetes in vulnerable families across Europe: design and implementation of the Feel4Diabetes-study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe the design of the Feel4Diabetes-intervention and the baseline characteristics of the study sample.
DESIGN: School- and community-based intervention with cluster-randomized design, aiming to promote healthy lifestyle and tackle obesity and obesity-related metabolic risk factors for the prevention of type 2 diabetes among families from vulnerable population groups. The intervention was implemented in 2016-2018 and included: (i) the 'all-families' component, provided to all children and their families via a school- and community-based intervention; and (ii) an additional component, the 'high-risk families' component, provided to high-risk families for diabetes as identified with a discrete manner by the FINDRISC questionnaire, which comprised seven counselling sessions (2016-2017) and a text-messaging intervention (2017-2018) delivered by trained health professionals in out-of-school settings. Although the intervention was adjusted to local needs and contextual circumstances, standardized protocols and procedures were used across all countries for the process, impact, outcome and cost-effectiveness evaluation of the intervention.
SETTING: Primary schools and municipalities in six European countries.
SUBJECTS: Families (primary-school children, their parents and grandparents) were recruited from the overall population in low/middle-income countries (Bulgaria, Hungary), from low socio-economic areas in high-income countries (Belgium, Finland) and from countries under austerity measures (Greece, Spain).
RESULTS: The Feel4Diabetes-intervention reached 30 309 families from 236 primary schools. In total, 20 442 families were screened and 12 193 'all families' and 2230 'high-risk families' were measured at baseline.
CONCLUSIONS: The Feel4Diabetes-intervention is expected to provide evidence-based results and key learnings that could guide the design and scaling-up of affordable and potentially cost-effective population-based interventions for the prevention of type 2 diabetes.
Label Included: 0

Title: SUITABILITY OF CURRENT EVALUATION FRAMEWORKS FOR USE IN THE HEALTH TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT OF MOBILE MEDICAL APPLICATIONS: A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To identify and appraise existing evaluation frameworks for mobile medical applications (MMA) and determine their suitability for use in health technology assessment (HTA) of these technologies.
METHODS: Systematic searches were conducted of seven bibliographic databases to identify literature published between 2008 and 2016 on MMA evaluation frameworks. Frameworks were eligible if they were used to evaluate at least one of the HTA domains of effectiveness, safety, and/or cost and cost-effectiveness of an MMA. After inclusion, the frameworks were reviewed to determine the number and extent to which other elements of an HTA were addressed by the framework.
RESULTS: A total of forty-five frameworks were identified that assessed MMAs. All frameworks assessed whether the app was effective. Of the thirty-four frameworks that examined safety, only seven overtly evaluated potential harms from the MMA (e.g., the impact of inaccurate information). Only one framework explicitly considered a comparator. Technology specific domains were sporadically addressed.
CONCLUSION: None of the evaluation frameworks could be used, unaltered, to guide the HTA of MMAs. To use these frameworks in HTA they would need to identify relevant comparators, improve assessments of harms and consider the ongoing effect of software updates on the safety and effectiveness of MMAs. Attention should also be paid to ethical issues, such as data privacy, and technology specific characteristics.
IMPLICATIONS: Existing MMA evaluation frameworks are not suitable for use in HTA. Further research is needed before an MMA evaluation framework can be developed that will adequately inform policy makers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home Visiting: Improving Children's and Families' Well-Being.
Abstract: (1) Studies have found a $1.80 to $5.70 return on investment for every dollar spent on home visiting. (2) Nearly 4 million evidence-based home visits reached more than 300,000 families in 2016. (3) Approximately 40 percent of U.S. counties have at least one home visiting agency that offers an evidence-based program.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of service models and organisational structures supporting tuberculosis identification and management in hard-to-reach populations in countries of low and medium tuberculosis incidence: a systematic review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine which service models and organisational structures are effective and cost-effective for delivering tuberculosis (TB) services to hard-to-reach populations.
DESIGN: Embase and MEDLINE (1990-2017) were searched in order to update and extend the 2011 systematic review commissioned by National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), discussing interventions targeting service models and organisational structures for the identification and management of TB in hard-to-reach populations. The NICE and Cochrane Collaboration standards were followed.
SETTING: European Union, European Economic Area, European Union candidate countries and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries.
PARTICIPANTS: Hard-to-reach populations, including migrants, homeless people, drug users, prisoners, sex workers, people living with HIV and children within vulnerable and hard-to-reach populations.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the interventions.
RESULTS: From the 19 720 citations found, five new studies were identified, in addition to the six discussed in the NICE review. Community health workers from the same migrant community, street teams and peers improved TB screening uptake by providing health education, promoting TB screening and organising contact tracing. Mobile TB clinics, specialised TB clinics and improved cooperation between healthcare services can be effective at identifying and treating active TB cases and are likely to be cost-effective. No difference in treatment outcome was detected when directly observed therapy was delivered at a health clinic or at a convenient location in the community.
CONCLUSIONS: Although evidence is limited due to the lack of high-quality studies, interventions using peers and community health workers, mobile TB services, specialised TB clinics and improved cooperation between health services can be effective to control TB in hard-to-reach populations. Future studies should evaluate the (cost-)effectiveness of interventions on TB identification and management in hard-to-reach populations and countries should be urged to publish the outcomes of their TB control systems.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42015017865.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical Decision Support Systems for Drug Allergy Checking: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Worldwide, the burden of allergies-in particular, drug allergies-is growing. In the process of prescribing, dispensing, or administering a drug, a medication error may occur and can have adverse consequences; for example, a drug may be given to a patient with a documented allergy to that particular drug. Computerized physician order entry (CPOE) systems with built-in clinical decision support systems (CDSS) have the potential to prevent such medication errors and adverse events.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review is to provide a comprehensive overview regarding all aspects of CDSS for drug allergy, including documenting, coding, rule bases, alerts and alert fatigue, and outcome evaluation.
METHODS: The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines were followed as much as possible and searches were conducted in 5 databases using CPOE, CDSS, alerts, and allergic or allergy as keywords. Bias could not be evaluated according to PRISMA guidelines due to the heterogeneity of study types included in the review.
RESULTS: Of the 3160 articles considered, 60 met the inclusion criteria. A further 9 articles were added based on expert opinion, resulting in a total of 69 articles. An interrater agreement of 90.9% with a reliability Κ=.787 (95% CI 0.686-0.888) was reached. Large heterogeneity across study objectives, study designs, study populations, and reported results was found. Several key findings were identified. Evidence of the usefulness of clinical decision support for drug allergies has been documented. Nevertheless, there are some important problems associated with their use. Accurate and structured documenting of information on drug allergies in electronic health records (EHRs) is difficult, as it is often not clear to healthcare providers how and where to document drug allergies. Besides the underreporting of drug allergies, outdated or inaccurate drug allergy information in EHRs poses an important problem. Research on the use of coding terminologies for documenting drug allergies is sparse. There is no generally accepted standard terminology for structured documentation of allergy information. The final key finding is the consistently reported low specificity of drug allergy alerts. Current systems have high alert override rates of up to 90%, leading to alert fatigue. Important challenges remain for increasing the specificity of drug allergy alerts. We found only one study specifically reporting outcomes related to CDSS for drug allergies. It showed that adverse drug events resulting from overridden drug allergy alerts do not occur frequently.
CONCLUSIONS: Accurate and comprehensive recording of drug allergies is required for good use of CDSS for drug allergy screening. We found considerable variation in the way drug allergy are recorded in EHRs. It remains difficult to reduce drug allergy alert overload while maintaining patient safety as the highest priority. Future research should focus on improving alert specificity, thereby reducing override rates and alert fatigue. Also, the effect on patient outcomes and cost-effectiveness should be evaluated.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Behavioral Activation for Depression in Older Adult Veterans: In-Person Care Versus Telehealth.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study examined whether delivering behavioral activation for depression through telehealth is cost-effective compared to in-person care.
METHODS: This was a randomized, noninferiority trial, with participants assigned to 1 of 2 arms of 8-week behavioral activation therapy: in-person or via telehealth. Primary clinical outcomes included measures of depression (Geriatric Depression Scale, Beck Depression Inventory, and Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV) at 12 months follow-up. Quality of life was assessed using the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey. Economic outcomes included the difference in health services utilization costs between 1 year post-intervention and 1 year pre-intervention, as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for differences in cost based on mean travel and median travel relative to the 3 primary outcomes and QALYs.
RESULTS: 241 participants were enrolled and completed study procedures between April 2007 and July 2012. Post-intervention, veterans treated in-person had a mean of $2,998 higher VA health care utilization costs relative to their pre-intervention utilization costs, while veterans treated via telehealth had a mean of $870.91 higher costs post-intervention relative to pre-intervention. The difference between bootstrap mean and median QALYs was not significantly different from zero.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the intervention costs for telehealth were higher relative to in-person care, veterans receiving behavioral activation via telehealth had lower health utilization costs 1 year after the intervention than those receiving care in person while QALYs were approximately the same. These results demonstrate the noninferiority of telehealth in treating depression in veterans with respect to QALYs and a large and significant cost benefit of using telehealth in terms of health services utilization post-intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00324701.
Label Included: 0

Title: Challenges and opportunities for outreach workers in the Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV (PMTCT) program in India.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV (PMTCT) program in India is one of the largest in the world. It uses outreach workers (ORWs) to facilitate patient uptake of services, however, the challenges faced by the ORWs, and their views about the effectiveness of this program are unknown.
METHODS: The COMmunity-Home Based INDia (COMBIND) Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV study evaluated an integrated mobile health and behavioral intervention to enhance the capacity of ORWs in India. To understand the challenges faced by ORWs, and their perceptions of opportunities for program improvement, four group discussions were conducted among 60 ORW from four districts of Maharashtra, India, as part of the baseline assessment for COMBIND. Data were qualitatively analyzed using a thematic approach.
RESULTS: Numerous personal-, social-, and structural-level challenges existed for ORW as they engaged with their patients. Personal-level challenges for ORWs included disclosure of their own HIV status and travelling costs for home visits. Personal-level challenges for patients included financial costs of travelling to ART centers, non-adherence to ART, loss of daily wages, non-affordability of infant formula, lack of awareness of the baby's needs, financial dependence on family, four time points (6weeks, 6 months, 12 months and 18 months) for HIV tests, and need for nevirapine (NVP) prophylaxis. Social-level challenges included lack of motivation by patients and/or health care staff, social stigma, and rude behavior of health care staff and their unwillingness to provide maternity services to women in the PMTCT programme. Structural-level challenges included cultural norms around infant feeding, shortages of HIV testing kits, shortages of antiretroviral drugs and infant NVP prophylaxis, and lack of training/knowledge related to PMTCT infant feeding guidelines by hospital staff. The consensus among ORWs was that there was a critical need for tools and training to improve their capacity to effectively engage with patients, and deliver appropriate care, and for motivation through periodic feedback.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the significant challenges in PMTCT programme implementation reported by ORW, novel strategies to address these challenges are urgently needed to improve patient engagement, and access to and retention in care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mortality and cardiovascular disease burden of uncontrolled diabetes in a registry-based cohort: the ESCARVAL-risk study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite the epidemiological evidence about the relationship between diabetes, mortality and cardiovascular disease, information about the population impact of uncontrolled diabetes is scarce. We aimed to estimate the attributable risk associated with HbA1c levels for all-cause mortality and cardiovascular hospitalization.
METHODS: Prospective study of subjects with diabetes mellitus using electronic health records from the universal public health system in the Valencian Community, Spain 2008-2012. We included 19,140 men and women aged 30 years or older with diabetes who underwent routine health examinations in primary care.
RESULTS: A total of 11,003 (57%) patients had uncontrolled diabetes defined as HbA1c ≥6.5%, and, among those, 5325 participants had HbA1c ≥7.5%. During an average follow-up time of 3.3 years, 499 deaths, 912 hospitalizations for coronary heart disease (CHD) and 786 hospitalizations for stroke were recorded. We observed a linear and increasingly positive dose-response of HbA1c levels and CHD hospitalization. The relative risk for all-cause mortality and CHD and stroke hospitalization comparing patients with and without uncontrolled diabetes was 1.29 (95 CI 1.08,1.55), 1.38 (95 CI 1.20,1.59) and 1.05 (95 CI 0.91, 1.21), respectively. The population attributable risk (PAR) associated with uncontrolled diabetes was 13.6% (95% CI; 4.0-23.9) for all-cause mortality, 17.9% (95% CI; 10.5-25.2) for CHD and 2.7% (95% CI; - 5.5-10.8) for stroke hospitalization.
CONCLUSIONS: In a large general-practice cohort of patients with diabetes, uncontrolled glucose levels were associated with a substantial mortality and cardiovascular disease burden.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of a blended physiotherapy intervention compared to usual physiotherapy in patients with hip and/or knee osteoarthritis: a cluster randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Blended physiotherapy, in which physiotherapy sessions and an online application are integrated, might support patients in taking an active role in the management of their chronic condition and may reduce disease related costs. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a blended physiotherapy intervention (e-Exercise) compared to usual physiotherapy in patients with osteoarthritis of hip and/or knee, from the societal as well as the healthcare perspective.
METHODS: This economic evaluation was conducted alongside a 12-month cluster randomized controlled trial, in which 108 patients received e-Exercise, consisting of physiotherapy sessions and a web-application, and 99 patients received usual physiotherapy. Clinical outcome measures were quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) according to the EuroQol (EQ-5D-3 L), physical functioning (HOOS/KOOS) and physical activity (Actigraph Accelerometer). Costs were measured using self-reported questionnaires. Missing data were multiply imputed and bootstrapping was used to estimate statistical uncertainty.
RESULTS: Intervention costs and medication costs were significantly lower in e-Exercise compared to usual physiotherapy. Total societal costs and total healthcare costs did not significantly differ between groups. No significant differences in effectiveness were found between groups. For physical functioning and physical activity, the maximum probability of e-Exercise being cost-effective compared to usual physiotherapy was moderate (< 0.82) from both perspectives. For QALYs, the probability of e-Exercise being cost-effective compared to usual physiotherapy was 0.68/0.84 at a willingness to pay of 10,000 Euro and 0.70/0.80 at a willingness to pay of 80,000 Euro per gained QALY, from respectively the societal and the healthcare perspective.
CONCLUSIONS: E-Exercise itself was significantly cheaper compared to usual physiotherapy in patients with hip and/or knee osteoarthritis, but not cost-effective from the societal- as well as healthcare perspective. The decision between both interventions can be based on the preferences of the patient and the physiotherapist.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NTR4224 (25 October 2013).
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Stroke Units - Cost-Effective or Just an Expensive Hype?
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Acute stroke is a treatable disease. Nevertheless, only a minority of patients obtain guideline-adjusted therapy. One major reason is the small time window in which therapies have to be administered in order to reverse or mitigate brain injury and prevent disability. The Mobile Stroke Unit (MSU) concept, available for a decade now, is spreading worldwide, comprising ambulances, fully equipped with computed tomography, laboratory unit and telemedicine connection to the stroke centre and staffed with a specialised stroke team. Besides its benefits, this concept adds a relevant amount of costs to health services.
RECENT FINDINGS: The feasibility of the MSU and its impact on reducing treatment times have been proven by several research trials. In addition, pre-hospital stroke diagnosis including computed tomographic angiography analysis facilitates correct triage of patients, needing mechanical recanalization, thereby reducing the number of secondary or inter-hospital transfers. Even so, the concept is not yet fully implemented on a broad scale. One reason is the still open question of cost-effectiveness. There are assumptions based on the randomised trials of MSUs hinting towards an acceptable amount of money per quality-adjusted life years and overall cost-effectiveness. Up to now, neither a prospective analysis nor a consideration of secondary transfer avoidance is available. The MSU concept is an innovative and impactful strategy to improve stroke management, especially in times of constraints in healthcare economics and health care professionals. Prospective information is needed to answer the cost-effectiveness question satisfactorily.
Label Included: 0

Title: At-risk registers integrated into primary care to stop asthma crises in the UK (ARRISA-UK): study protocol for a pragmatic, cluster randomised trial with nested health economic and process evaluations.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite effective treatments and long-standing management guidelines, there are approximately 1400 hospital admissions for asthma weekly in the United Kingdom (UK), many of which could be avoided. In our previous research, a secondary analysis of the intervention (ARRISA) suggested an improvement in the management of at-risk asthma patients in primary care. ARRISA involved identifying individuals at risk of adverse asthma events, flagging their electronic health records, training practice staff to develop and implement practice-wide processes of care when alerted by the flag, plus motivational reminders. We now seek to determine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of ARRISA in reducing asthma-related crisis events.
METHODS: We are undertaking a pragmatic, two-arm, multicentre, cluster randomised controlled trial, plus health economic and process evaluation. We will randomise 270 primary care practices from throughout the UK covering over 10,000 registered patients with 'at-risk asthma' identified according to a validated algorithm. Staff in practices randomised to the intervention will complete two 45-min eLearning modules (an individually completed module giving background to ARRISA and a group-completed module to develop practice-wide pathways of care) plus a 30-min webinar with other practices. On completion of training at-risk patients' records will be coded so that a flag appears whenever their record is accessed. Practices will receive a phone call at 4 weeks and a reminder video at 6 weeks and 6 months. Control practices will continue to provide usual care. We will extract anonymised routine patient data from primary care records (with linkage to secondary care data) to determine the percentage of at-risk patients with an asthma-related crisis event (accident and emergency attendances, hospitalisations and deaths) after 12 months (primary outcome). We will also capture the time to crisis event, all-cause hospitalisations, asthma control and any changes in practice asthma management for at-risk and all patients with asthma. Cost-effectiveness analysis and mixed-methods process evaluations will also be conducted.
DISCUSSION: This study is novel in terms of using a practice-wide intervention to target and engage with patients at risk from their asthma and is innovative in the use of routinely captured data with record linkage to obtain trial outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN95472706 . Registered on 5 December 2014.
Label Included: 0

Title: Modeling the sustained use of the 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine compared to switching to the 10-valent vaccine in Mexico.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Pneumococcal diseases caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae represent a significant health and economic burden. Mexico has benefited from the inclusion of the 7-valent (PCV7) and 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccines (PCV13) since their inclusion in the National Immunization Program (NIP) in 2006 and 2010, respectively. The objective of this study is to estimate the impact of the existing program and predict future implications of a change in the current program.
METHODS: A previously published model was updated to estimate the historic impact of the PCV programs relative to pre-PCV implementation. Future disease trends were forecasted based on historical serotype behaviors for each PCV13 serotype and non-vaccine serotypes across different age groups. Costs and outcomes were estimated over a 10-year period based on continued use of PCV13 compared to a switch to PCV10.
RESULTS: The PCV7 and subsequent PCV13 NIP were estimated to prevent over 1.5 million cases of pneumococcal disease and 1,854 deaths, corresponding to a net savings of $34.50 Billion MXN. Continued use of PCV13 was estimated to save over 300 thousand cases of pneumococcal disease and 373 deaths compared to switching to PCV10 over a 10-year period. Despite a higher vaccine cost, maintaining PCV13 was cost-saving compared to PCV10, saving $6.71 billion MXN over 10 years.
CONCLUSION: The PCV program in Mexico has provided a significant return on investment. Sustained PCV13 use was estimated to provide the greatest healthcare and economic impact in Mexico. Changes to the pneumococcal vaccination program could result in serotype replacement and reduction in herd effects.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects and costs of real-time cardiac telerehabilitation: randomised controlled non-inferiority trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Compare the effects and costs of remotely monitored exercise-based cardiac telerehabilitation (REMOTE-CR) with centre-based programmes (CBexCR) in adults with coronary heart disease (CHD).
METHODS: Participants were randomised to receive 12 weeks of telerehabilitation or centre-based rehabilitation. REMOTE-CR provided individualised exercise prescription, real-time exercise monitoring/coaching and theory-based behavioural strategies via a bespoke telerehabilitation platform; CBexCR provided individualised exercise prescription and coaching via established rehabilitation clinics. Outcomes assessed at baseline, 12 and/or 24 weeks included maximal oxygen uptake (V̇O2max, primary) modifiable cardiovascular risk factors, exercise adherence, motivation, health-related quality of life and programme delivery, hospital service utilisation and medication costs. The primary hypothesis was a non-inferior between-group difference in V̇O2max at 12 weeks (inferiority margin=-1.25 mL/kg/min); inferiority margins were not set for secondary outcomes.
RESULTS: 162 participants (mean 61±12.7 years, 86% men) were randomised. V̇O2 max was comparable in both groups at 12 weeks and REMOTE-CR was non-inferior to CBexCR (REMOTE-CR-CBexCR adjusted mean difference (AMD)=0.51 (95% CI -0.97 to 1.98) mL/kg/min, p=0.48). REMOTE-CR participants were less sedentary at 24 weeks (AMD=-61.5 (95% CI -117.8 to -5.3) min/day, p=0.03), while CBexCR participants had smaller waist (AMD=1.71 (95% CI 0.09 to 3.34) cm, p=0.04) and hip circumferences (AMD=1.16 (95% CI 0.06 to 2.27) cm, p=0.04) at 12 weeks. No other between-group differences were detected. Per capita programme delivery (NZD1130/GBP573 vs NZD3466/GBP1758) and medication costs (NZD331/GBP168 vs NZD605/GBP307, p=0.02) were lower for REMOTE-CR. Hospital service utilisation costs were not statistically significantly different (NZD3459/GBP1754 vs NZD5464/GBP2771, p=0.20).
CONCLUSION: REMOTE-CR is an effective, cost-efficient alternative delivery model that could-as a complement to existing services-improve overall utilisation rates by increasing reach and satisfying unique participant preferences.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Analysis of Implementing a Video-Based eHealth Intervention for HIV-Positive Gay, Bisexual, and Other Men Who Have Sex With Men.
Abstract: Clinician-delivered HIV prevention interventions are common and often effective but have small reach, particularly in remote, rural, or sparsely populated areas. Electronic health (eHealth) interventions may be an efficient alternative to providing HIV prevention to geographically dispersed or traditionally hard-to-reach populations, though eHealth interventions tend to have high start-up costs. We present cost data from a video-based eHealth intervention, Sex Positive!, among 1,208 U.S. gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men living with HIV. Specifically, we provide estimates for the cost of the intervention, overall, and per participant based on funding amounts. The total average cost per participant was $1,021. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that reaching more participants would greatly reduce the average cost per participant. Findings indicate that the cost per person engaged in an eHealth HIV intervention is consistent with previous studies, and that further scaling up would greatly reduce the cost while increasing reach.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Value of shared electronic health records for the management of homeless people].
Abstract: AIM: To assess the acceptability for GPS to use the French shared Electronic Health Record (Dossier Médical Partagé, "DMP") when caring for Homeless People (HP).
METHODS: Mixed, sequential, qualitative-quantitative study. The qualitative phase consisted of semi-structured interviews with GPs involved in the care of HP. During the quantitative phase, questionnaires were sent to 150 randomized GPs providing routine healthcare in Marseille. Social and practical acceptability was studied by means of a Likert Scale.
RESULTS: 19 GPs were interviewed during the qualitative phase, and 105 GPs answered the questionnaire during the quantitative phase (response rate: 73%). GPs had a poor knowledge about DMP. More than half (52.5%) of GPs were likely to effectively use DMP for HP. GPs felt that the "DMP" could improve continuity, quality, and security of care for HP. They perceived greater benefits of the use the DMP for HP than for the general population, notably in terms of saving time (p = 0.03). However, GPs felt that HP were vulnerable and wanted to protect their patients; they worried about security of data storage. GPs identified specific barriers for HP to use DMP: most of them concerned practical access for HP to DMP (lack of social security card, or lack of tool for accessing internet).
CONCLUSION: A shared electronic health record, such as the French DMP, could improve continuity of care for HP in France. GPs need to be better informed, and DMP functions need to be optimized and adapted to HP, so that it can be effectively used by GPs for HP.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote delivery of weight management for adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities: Rationale and design for a 24 month randomized trial.
Abstract: Adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD) represent an underserved segment of the US population with a high prevalence of obesity and limited options for weight management. Previous research has demonstrated clinically meaningful weight loss of 7% of total body weight in in adults with IDD using an enhanced Stop Light Diet (eSLD) in combination with monthly at-home face-to-face (FTF) behavioral sessions, and a recommendation for increased physical activity. However, the time and cost associated with FTF delivery (travel + sessions) limits the potential for scaling and implementation and suggests the need for the evaluation of less costly and burdensome strategies for intervention delivery. Therefore, we will conduct a 24-mo. randomized trial to compare a weight management intervention (6 mos. weight loss, 12 mos. maintenance, 6 mos. no-contact follow-up) delivered to 120 overweight/obese adults with IDD in their home, either remotely (RD) using video conferencing on a tablet computer, or during FTF visits. Our primary aim is whether RD is non-inferior to FTF for weight loss (0-6 mos.). Secondarily, we will compare the RD and FTF groups on mean weight loss, the proportion of participants who achieve clinically meaningful weight loss, and changes in quality of life across 24 months. We will also conduct cost analysis, cost-effectiveness, and contingent valuation analyses to compare the RD and FTF groups.
Label Included: 0

Title: 3MD for Chronic Conditions, a Model for Motivational mHealth Design: Embedded Case Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic conditions are the leading cause of death in the world. Major improvements in acute care and diagnostics have created a tendency toward the chronification of formerly terminal conditions, requiring people with these conditions to learn how to self-manage. Mobile technologies hold promise as self-management tools due to their ubiquity and cost-effectiveness. The delivery of health-related services through mobile technologies (mobile health, mHealth) has grown exponentially in recent years. However, only a fraction of these solutions take into consideration the views of relevant stakeholders such as health care professionals or even patients. The use of behavioral change models (BCMs) has proven important in developing successful health solutions, yet engaging patients remains a challenge. There is a trend in mHealth solutions called gamification that attempts to use game elements to drive user behavior and increase engagement. As it stands, designers of mHealth solutions for behavioral change in chronic conditions have no clear way of deciding what factors are relevant to consider.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this work is to discover factors for the design of mHealth solutions for chronic patients using negotiations between medical knowledge, BCMs, and gamification.
METHODS: This study uses an embedded case study research methodology consisting of 4 embedded units: 1) cross-sectional studies of mHealth applications; 2) statistical analysis of gamification presence; 3) focus groups and interviews to relevant stakeholders; and 4) research through design of an mHealth solution. The data obtained was thematically analyzed to create a conceptual model for the design of mHealth solutions.
RESULTS: The Model for Motivational Mobile-health Design (3MD) for chronic conditions guides the design of condition-oriented gamified behavioral change mHealth solutions. The main components are (1) condition specific, which describe factors that need to be adjusted and adapted for each particular chronic condition; (2) motivation related, which are factors that address how to influence behaviors in an engaging manner; and (3) technology based, which are factors that are directly connected to the technical capabilities of mobile technologies. The 3MD also provides a series of high-level illustrative design questions for designers to use and consider during the design process.
CONCLUSIONS: This work addresses a recognized gap in research and practice, and proposes a unique model that could be of use in the generation of new solutions to help chronic patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: An Audit of Thrombophilia Testing in Patients with Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack: The Futility of Testing.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Many patients admitted with an ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) undergo thrombophilia testing. There is limited evidence to support this practice. We examined the effect of thrombophilia testing on management of patients admitted with an ischemic stroke or TIA.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this retrospective observational single-center study, we identified patients who were admitted with stroke or TIA and underwent thrombophilia testing over a 45-month period. We reviewed their electronic medical records to assess whether testing affected clinical management, defined as anticoagulation treatment by the time of discharge due to a positive test result. Secondary endpoints included potential misdiagnosis due to false positive results and cost of testing.
RESULTS: Testing was performed in 143 patients with a stroke or TIA. Forty-four patients (31%) had at least 1 positive test result. The most common positive tests were an elevated factor VIII activity (18% of patients tested) and decreased protein S activity (11% of patients tested). Both of these tests are subject to acute phase effects. Testing altered clinical management in only 1 patient (1% of total patients tested). Thirty-three patients (75%) have the potential for carrying a misdiagnosis due to a positive test that was never repeated for confirmation or repeated too soon after the initial positive test. The annual cost of testing was approximately $62,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Thrombophilia testing in the acute inpatient setting rarely impacted the clinical management of patients admitted with a stroke or TIA. By avoiding thrombophilia testing, both the potential for misdiagnosis and health care costs can be reduced. Therefore, we have discontinued thrombophilia testing in in-patients with a diagnosis of stroke.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine: Part II [Editorial].
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost savings analysis of asynchronous teledermatology compared to face-to-face dermatology in Catalonia.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A teledermatology pilot scheme was first conducted in the town of Manresa (Barcelona) in the summer of 2010. The clinical success of the scheme prompted its expansion to the whole county of Bages in 2011 and to the adjacent county of Berguedà in 2012. In the teledermatology service, primary care physicians take a photograph of the lesion and attach it to the electronic medical records of the patient together with a brief clinical account. In the referral hospital, the consultant dermatologists access the electronic medical records, review the images and suggest a treatment or action plan. Next, the primary care physicians review these recommendations and call the patient to report the results. This whole process is usually completed in less than 5 working days.
METHODS: A cost saving analysis comparing teledermatology with dermatology face-to-face visits was performed in the county of Bages measuring the cost difference attributable to visits saved.
RESULTS: The estimated added costs of the teledermatology service during 2016 amounted to 61,870 €. For the same period, the estimated costs of traditional outpatient dermatology services were of 113,034 €. This represents savings of 51,164 € per year. After subtraction of societal costs, the savings equal 10,350 € per year.
CONCLUSIONS: Using a teledermatology service instead of face-to-face dermatology consultations could save 51,164 € per year (11.4 € per patient visited) in the county of Bages. Societal savings are the most significant.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of an Evidence-based Inpatient Tobacco Dependence Treatment Service on 1-Year Postdischarge Health Care Costs.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In 2014, the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) implemented a Tobacco Dependence Treatment Service (TDTS) consistent with the Joint Commission (JC) standards recommending that hospitals screen patients for smoking, provide cessation support, and follow-up contact for relapse prevention within 1 month of discharge. We previously demonstrated that patients exposed to the MUSC TDTS were approximately half as likely to be smoking one month after discharge and 23% less likely to have a 30-day hospital readmission. This paper examines whether exposure to the TDTS influenced downstream health care charges 12 months after patients were discharged from the hospital.
METHODS: Data from MUSC's electronic health records, the TDTS, and statewide health care utilization datasets (eg, hospitalization, emergency department, and ambulatory surgery visits) were linked to assess how exposure to the MUSC TDTS impacted health care charges. Total health care charges were compared for patients with and without TDTS exposure. To reduce potential TDTS exposure selection bias, propensity score weighting was used to balance baseline characteristics between groups. The cost of delivering the MUSC TDTS intervention was calculated, along with cost per smoker.
RESULTS: The overall adjusted mean health care charges for smokers exposed to the TDTS were $7299 lower than for those who did not receive TDTS services (P=0.047). The TDTS cost per smoker was modest by comparison at $34.21 per smoker eligible for the service.
DISCUSSION: Results suggest that implementation of a TDTS consistent with JC standards for smoking cessation can be affordably implemented and yield substantial health care savings that would benefit patients, hospitals, and insurers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Protocol of economic evaluation and equity impact analysis of mHealth and community groups for prevention and control of diabetes in rural Bangladesh in a three-arm cluster randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is one of the leading causes of death and disability worldwide, generating substantial economic burden for people with diabetes and their families, and to health systems and national economies. Bangladesh has one of the largest numbers of adults with diabetes in the South Asian region. This paper describes the planned economic evaluation of a three-arm cluster randomised control trial of mHealth and community mobilisation interventions to prevent and control T2DM and non-communicable diseases' risk factors in rural Bangladesh (D-Magic trial).
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The economic evaluation will be conducted as a within-trial analysis to evaluate the incremental costs and health outcomes of mHealth and community mobilisation interventions compared with the status quo. The analyses will be conducted from a societal perspective, assessing the economic impact for all parties affected by the interventions, including implementing agencies (programme costs), healthcare providers, and participants and their households. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) will be calculated in terms of cost per case of intermediate hyperglycaemia and T2DM prevented and cost per case of diabetes prevented among individuals with intermediate hyperglycaemia at baseline and cost per mm Hg reduction in systolic blood pressure. In addition to ICERs, the economic evaluation will be presented as a cost-consequence analysis where the incremental costs and all statistically significant outcomes will be listed separately. Robustness of the results will be assessed through sensitivity analyses. In addition, an analysis of equity impact of the interventions will be conducted.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The approval to conduct the study was obtained by the University College London Research Ethics Committee (4766/002) and by the Ethical Review Committee of the Diabetic Association of Bangladesh (BADAS-ERC/EC/t5100246). The findings of this study will be disseminated through different means within academia and the wider policy sphere.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN41083256; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical Effectiveness of Telemedicine in Diabetes Mellitus: A Meta-Analysis of 42 Randomized Controlled Trials.
Abstract: Background:Telemedicine is instrumental in improving diabetes patient care, as well as providing significant cost benefits. This meta-analysis was conducted to compare the effectiveness of telemedicine intervention with usual care in diabetes patients.Methods:Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) reporting a change in HbA1c after usual care and telemedicine intervention were retrieved from electronic databases.Results:Data on 6,170 participants (mean age 13.3 to 71.0 years), with 3,128 randomized to usual care and 3,042 to telemedicine intervention, were retrieved from 42 RCTs. Eight studies used teleconsultation, while 34 used telemonitoring (device based). Nine studies enrolled both type 1 and type 2 diabetes patients, 21 focused on type 2 diabetes patients, and 12 on type 1 diabetes patients. The mean reduction in HbA1c was significantly higher in the telemedicine groups (Hedges' g = -0.37, p < 0.001). Type 2 diabetes patients experienced a higher reduction in HbA1c compared to type 1 diabetes patients (Hedges' g = -0.48, p < 0.001 vs. -0.26, p < 0.05; Q = 1935.75, p < 0.0001). Older patients (41-50 years, Hedges' g = -1.82, p < 0.001; >50 years, Hedges' g = -1.05, p < 0.001) benefited more than their younger counterparts (Hedges' g = -0.84, p = 0.07). Telemedicine programs lasting >6 months produced a significantly greater reduction in HbA1c levels (Hedges' g = -2.24 vs. -0.66, p < 0.001).Conclusion:Telemedicine interventions are more effective than usual care in managing diabetes, especially type 2 diabetes. Furthermore, older patients and a longer duration of intervention provide superior results.
Label Included: 0

Title: An addiction model-based mobile health weight loss intervention in adolescents with obesity.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Clinical approaches to treating childhood obesity can be expensive and poorly reimbursed, and often produce suboptimal results. It has been theorized that overeating may have addictive qualities, and a sizable number of adolescents with obesity endorse addictive habits. Interestingly, few weight management interventions have tested techniques founded in addiction medicine principles. We therefore performed a pilot study of an addiction model based mHealth weight loss intervention in adolescents.
METHODS: Adolescents with obesity were recruited from an multidisciplinary weight management clinic (EMPOWER). Adolescents without significant obesity comorbidities, who exhibited signs of addictive eating, based on the Yale Food Addiction Scale, were enrolled in a pilot study of an interactive, addiction-based, weight loss smartphone app with coaching (http://clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02689154). The app was designed to help subjects omit problem foods, avoid snacking and reduce meal size. A contemporary cohort of adolescents who completed the EMPOWER program were evaluated. Feasibility of recruitment, adherence, retention rates, BMI change and cost of intervention were examined.
RESULTS: Eighteen participants were recruited to app intervention. App participants had higher retention (100% vs. 37%) and lower total cost per patient ($855.15 vs. $1428.00) than the EMPOWER clinic participants. App participants exhibited a significant decrease in zBMI and %BMIp95 over the 6 months (p < 0.001 and p = 0.001), which was comparable to the age-matched EMPOWER program completers (p = 0.31 and p = 0.06).
CONCLUSIONS: An addiction medicine-based mHealth intervention targeted for adolescents was feasible to implement, resulted in high retention and adherence rates, and reduced zBMI and %BMIp95 in a more cost-effective manner than an in-clinic intervention.
Label Included: 0

Title: Metacognitive therapy home-based self-help for cardiac rehabilitation patients experiencing anxiety and depressive symptoms: study protocol for a feasibility randomised controlled trial (PATHWAY Home-MCT).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Anxiety and depression are common among patients attending cardiac rehabilitation services. Currently available pharmacological and psychological interventions have limited effectiveness in this population. There are presently no psychological interventions for anxiety and depression integrated into cardiac rehabilitation services despite emphasis in key UK National Health Service policy. A new treatment, metacognitive therapy, is highly effective at reducing anxiety and depression in mental health settings. The principal aims of the current study are (1) to evaluate the acceptability of delivering metacognitive therapy in a home-based self-help format (Home-MCT) to cardiac rehabilitation patients experiencing anxiety and depressive symptoms and conduct a feasibility trial of Home-MCT plus usual cardiac rehabilitation compared to usual cardiac rehabilitation; and (2) to inform the design and sample size for a full-scale trial.
METHODS: The PATHWAY Home-MCT trial is a single-blind feasibility randomised controlled trial comparing usual cardiac rehabilitation (control) versus usual cardiac rehabilitation plus home-based self-help metacognitive therapy (intervention). Economic and qualitative evaluations will be embedded within the trial. Participants will be assessed at baseline and followed-up at 4 and 12 months. Patients who have been referred to cardiac rehabilitation programmes and have a score of ≥ 8 on the anxiety and/or depression subscales of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale will be invited to take part in the study and written informed consent will be obtained. Participants will be recruited from the National Health Service in the UK. A minimum of 108 participants will be randomised to the intervention and control arms in a 1:1 ratio.
DISCUSSION: The Home-MCT feasibility randomised controlled trial will provide evidence on the acceptability of delivering metacognitive therapy in a home-based self-help format for cardiac rehabilitation patients experiencing symptoms of anxiety and/or depression and on the feasibility and design of a full-scale trial. In addition, it will provide provisional point estimates, with appropriately wide measures of uncertainty, relating to the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03129282 , Submitted to Registry: 11 April 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: Exploring the costs of a 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccination program for home care patients.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The city of Joensuu in Finland vaccinated 409 elderly home care patients with the 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) in autumn 2012. All home care patients were also eligible for a seasonal influenza vaccine. The objective of this retrospective real-world data cohort study was to evaluate whether the immunization intervention with PCV13 for home care patients was cost saving from the payer's (municipality's) perspective in terms of a return on investment (ROI).
METHODS: This was a retrospective observational registry study. We used registry data from the regional Mediatri patient information system covering all North Karelian municipalities, including individual-level data for all health and social care service utilization, diagnoses and procedures. Home care patients and their use of services were followed for 2 years. Cost comparisons were based on two specifications: (1) pneumonia-related health care costs; and (2) total health care costs. We compared patients who had received both influenza and PCV13 vaccinations to patients only vaccinated against influenza.
RESULT: The pneumonia-related costs in the PCV13-vaccinated group were 434 EUR lower and the total health care costs 3800 EUR lower per person, compared to the non-PCV13-vaccinated group (bootstrapped 95% CIs -1682-527 EUR and -8233-621 EUR, respectively). PCV13 vaccination was associated with a return on investment of 7 EUR per 1 EUR spent during the 2 year follow-up period when pneumonia-related costs were used as baseline. Probability of the positive return on investment was .715.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that vaccinating home care patients could potentially be cost saving from the health care and service producer's perspectives. The uncertainty from the decision-making perspective was due to the large variation in individual costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Economic Burden of Heart Conditions in Brazil.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Heart conditions impose physical, social, financial and health-related quality of life limitations on individuals in Brazil.
OBJECTIVES: This study assessed the economic burden of four main heart conditions in Brazil: hypertension, heart failure, myocardial infarction, and atrial fibrillation. In addition, the cost-effectiveness of telemedicine and structured telephone support for the management of heart failure was assessed.
METHODS: A standard cost of illness framework was used to assess the costs associated with the four conditions in 2015. The analysis assessed the prevalence of the four conditions and, in the case of myocardial infarction, also its incidence. It further assessed the conditions' associated expenditures on healthcare treatment, productivity losses from reduced employment, costs of providing formal and informal care, and lost wellbeing. The analysis was informed by a targeted literature review, data scan and modelling. All inputs and methods were validated by consulting 15 clinicians and other stakeholders in Brazil. The cost-effectiveness analysis was based on a meta-analysis and economic evaluation of post-discharge programs in patients with heart failure, assessed from the perspective of the Brazilian Unified Healthcare System (Sistema Unico de Saude).
RESULTS: Myocardial infarction imposes the greatest financial cost (22.4 billion reais/6.9 billion USD), followed by heart failure (22.1 billion reais/6.8 billion USD), hypertension (8 billion reais/2.5 billion USD) and, finally, atrial fibrillation (3.9 billion reais/1.2 billion USD). Telemedicine and structured telephone support are cost-effective interventions for achieving improvements in the management of heart failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Heart conditions impose substantial loss of wellbeing and financial costs in Brazil and should be a public health priority.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development and economic evaluation of a pharmacist-provided chronic care management service in an ambulatory care geriatrics clinic.
Abstract: PURPOSE: The implementation and delivery of a pharmacist-led chronic care management (CCM) service in a geriatric primary care clinic are described.
METHODS: A CCM service was provided March 1 through December 31, 2016, at the University of Colorado Hospital Seniors Clinic ("Seniors Clinic"). The electronic health record (EHR) team for the University of Colorado Health system developed a patient registry through EPIC Healthy Planet (Epic Systems Corp., Verona, WI) to identify patients at the Seniors Clinic eligible for CCM services. The EHR team constructed a note type and documentation template within the EHR to ensure documentation of all necessary components for billing and to allow individual clinical staff to document the time spent providing CCM care.
RESULTS: Overall, 36 elderly patients enrolled in the pharmacist-provided CCM service over the 10 months. Clinical pharmacists spent a total of 156-849 minutes per month providing CCM services, with a mean outreach time of 45.4 minutes per patient. The clinical pharmacists submitted 95 claims, and all but 5 were paid. The total amount reimbursed from the health plans during the 10 months was $2,775.02.
CONCLUSION: Medicare patients were successfully enrolled in a CCM service in a geriatrics primary care clinic led by clinical pharmacists and medical providers. The CCM services were more time-consuming than the allotted 20 minutes per patient per month with the CCM Current Procedural Terminology code used during this study.
Label Included: 0

Title: Controlling of smart home system based on brain-computer interface.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Brain computer interface (BCI) technology is a communication and control approach. Up to now many studies have attempted to develop an EEG-based BCI system to improve the quality of life of people with severe disabilities, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), paralysis, brain stroke and so on. The proposed BCIBSHS could help to provide a new way for supporting life of paralyzed people and elderly people.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this paper is to explore how to set up a cost-effective and safe-to-use online BCIBSHS to recognize multi-commands and control smart devices based on SSVEP.
METHODS: The portable EEG acquisition device (Emotiv EPOC) was used to collect EEG signals. The raw signals were denoised by discrete wavelet transform (DWT) method, and then the canonical correlation analysis (CCA) method was used for feature extraction and classification. Another part is the control of smart home devices. The classification results of SSVEP can be translated into commands to control several devices for the smart home.
RESULTS: Here, the Power over Ethernet (PoE) technology was utilized to provide electrical energy and communication for those devices. During online experiments, four different control commands have been achieved to control four smart home devices (lamp, web camera, guardianship telephone and intelligent blinds). Experimental results showed that the online BCIBSHS obtained 86.88 ± 5.30% average classification accuracy rate.
CONCLUSION: The BCI and PoE technology, combined with smart home system, overcoming the shortcomings of traditional systems and achieving home applications management rely on EEG signal. In this paper, we proposed an online steady-state visual evoked potential (SSVEP) based BCI system on controlling several smart home devices.
Label Included: 0

Title: On-demand synchronous audio video telemedicine visits are cost effective.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Claims data raises the possibility that on demand telemedicine programs might increase new utilization, offsetting the cost benefits described in some retrospective analyses. We prospectively evaluated the cost of a synchronous audio-video on-demand telemedicine taking into account both what patients would have done instead of the telemedicine visit as well as the care patients received after the visit.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a prospective observational study of patients who received care from an on-demand telemedicine program. At the time of the visit, we surveyed patients about the alternative care that would have been requested, if they had not done the telemedicine visit. We also obtained information following the visit about what further care was received. Using cost data derived from the literature we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the cost impact of the on-demand telemedicine visit.
RESULTS: There were 650 patients enrolled with a mean age of 37 who were 68% female; 74% had their care concerns resolved on the telemedicine visit; only 16% would have "done nothing" if they had not done the telemedicine visit, representing possible new utilization. Net cost savings per telemedicine visit was calculated to range from $19-$121 per visit.
CONCLUSIONS: In our on-demand telemedicine program, we found the majority of health concerns could be resolved in a single consultation and new utilization was infrequent. Synchronous audio-video telemedicine consults resulted in short-term cost savings by diverting patients from more expensive care settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Value of hospital resources for effective pressure injury prevention: a cost-effectiveness analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Hospital-acquired pressure injuries are localised skin injuries that cause significant mortality and are costly. Nursing best practices prevent pressure injuries, including time-consuming, complex tasks that lack payment incentives. The Braden Scale is an evidence-based stratification tool nurses use daily to assess pressure-injury risk. Our objective was to analyse the cost-utility of performing repeated risk-assessment for pressure-injury prevention in all patients or high-risk groups.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis using Markov modelling from US societal and healthcare sector perspectives within a 1-year time horizon.
SETTING: Patient-level longitudinal data on 34 787 encounters from an academic hospital electronic health record (EHR) between 2011 and 2014, including daily Braden scores. Supervised machine learning simulated age-adjusted transition probabilities between risk levels and pressure injuries.
PARTICIPANTS: Hospitalised adults with Braden scores classified into five risk levels: very high risk (6-9), high risk (10-11), moderate risk (12-14), at-risk (15-18), minimal risk (19-23).
INTERVENTIONS: Standard care, repeated risk assessment in all risk levels or only repeated risk assessment in high-risk strata based on machine-learning simulations.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs (2016 $US) of pressure-injury treatment and prevention, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) related to pressure injuries were weighted by transition probabilities to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) at $100 000/QALY willingness-to-pay. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses tested model uncertainty.
RESULTS: Simulating prevention for all patients yielded greater QALYs at higher cost from societal and healthcare sector perspectives, equating to ICERs of $2000/QALY and $2142/QALY, respectively. Risk-stratified follow-up in patients with Braden scores <15 dominated standard care. Prevention for all patients was cost-effective in >99% of probabilistic simulations.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis using EHR data maintains that pressure-injury prevention for all inpatients is cost-effective. Hospitals should invest in nursing compliance with international prevention guidelines.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pilot Study to Evaluate the Safety, Feasibility, and Financial Implications of a Postoperative Telemedicine Program.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine in surgery holds promise for improving access and decreasing costs, but its role remains ill-defined. This pilot study was performed to investigate the safety, feasibility, and financial implications of providing postoperative care using an electronic clinic (eClinic) at a university hospital.
METHODS: An easy-to-use and secure eClinic platform was constructed in Epic (Epic Systems Corporation, Verona, WA). Patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy, appendectomy, and hernia repairs on an adult acute care surgery service were enrolled in this program over an 11-month period (March 2017 to January 2018). Patients with prolonged hospitalizations (greater than 4 nights), perioperative complications, drains, and open wounds were excluded. Demographics, clinical outcomes, encounter time, patient satisfaction survey results, and cost analysis were compared with the traditional clinic (tClinic) patient population.
RESULTS: Two hundred thirty-three eligible patients (61% female; mean age 41 ± 16 years) were enrolled in this program. Their demographics were no different than the tClinic. Frequencies of readmission, reoperation, and emergency department visits (2.7%, 0%, and 4.2%, respectively) in the eClinic group were also similar to the tClinic group. However, total visit time was significantly shorter in the eClinic group (14 vs 145 minutes, P < 0.01). Anonymous surveys demonstrated a high degree of satisfaction, with 85% of patients expressing desire to utilize the eClinic again. This program enhanced the capacity for new visits to tClinic, with a resultant projected increase in additional operative cases and revenue for the health care system.
CONCLUSIONS: A safe and efficient postoperative telemedicine program can be constructed utilizing a widely available electronic medical record system, which can improve patient satisfaction, optimize throughput, and increase gross charges for the healthcare system.
Label Included: 0

Title: m-Power Heart Project - a nurse care coordinator led, mHealth enabled intervention to improve the management of hypertension in India: study protocol for a cluster randomized trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The proportion of patients with controlled hypertension (< 140/90 mmHg) is very low in India. Thus, there is a need to improve blood pressure management among patients with uncontrolled hypertension through innovative strategies directed at health system strengthening.
METHODS: We designed an intervention consisting of two important components - an electronic decision support system (EDSS) used by a trained nurse care coordinator (NCC). Based on preliminary data, we hypothesized that this intervention will be able to reduce mean systolic blood pressure by 6.5 mmHg among those with uncontrolled blood pressure in the intervention arm compared to the standard treatment arm (paper-based hypertension treatment guidelines). The study will adopt a cluster randomized trial design with the community health center (CHC) as the unit of randomization. The trial will be conducted in Visakhapatnam district (southern India). A total of 1876 participants aged ≥30 years with high blood pressure - systolic blood pressure (SBP) ≥ 160 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) ≥ 90 mmHg will be enrolled from 12 CHCs. The intervention consists of trained NCCs equipped with an evidence-based hypertension treatment algorithm in the form of the EDSS with regular SMSs to patients with hypertension to promote hypertension treatment and blood pressure control for 12 months. The primary outcome will be difference in the mean change of SBP, from baseline to 12 months, between the intervention and the standard treatment arm. The secondary outcomes are the difference in mean change of DBP; difference in the proportion of patients with controlled blood pressure (< 140/90 mmHg); difference in mean change of fasting blood sugar, HbA1C, eGFR, and albumin to creatinine ratio; difference in the proportion of patients visiting the CHC regularly (number of actual visits to the CHC/number of visits suggested by the EDSS > 80%); difference in proportion of patients compliant to anti-hypertensive medication/s; cost-effectiveness of intervention versus enhanced care. All the outcomes will be assessed at 12 months.
DISCUSSION: The study is expected to provide evidence on the effectiveness of NCC-led, EDSS-based hypertension management in India and can likely offer an exemplar for improving cardiovascular disease (CVD) management in India within the resource-constrained public healthcare system.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, ID: NCT03164317 ). Registered retrospectively on 23 May 2017 (first patient enrolled on 6 April 2017) because the authors did not receive a response to their original registration submission (5 January 2017) to the Clinical Trial Registry - India (CTRI).
Label Included: 0

Title: Web-based intervention for depressive symptoms in adults with types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus: a health economic evaluation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Web-based interventions are effective in reducing depression. However, the evidence for the cost-effectiveness of these interventions is scarce.AimsThe aim is to assess the cost-effectiveness of a web-based intervention (GET.ON M.E.D.) for individuals with diabetes and comorbid depression compared with an active control group receiving web-based psychoeducation.
METHOD: We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis with treatment response as the outcome and a cost-utility analysis with quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) alongside a randomised controlled trial with 260 participants.
RESULTS: At a willingness-to-pay ceiling of €5000 for a treatment response, the intervention has a 97% probability of being regarded as cost-effective compared with the active control group. If society is willing to pay €14 000 for an additional QALY, the intervention has a 51% probability of being cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This web-based intervention for individuals with diabetes and comorbid depression demonstrated a high probability of being cost-effective compared with an active control group.Declaration of interestS.N., D.D.E., D.L., M.B. and B.F. are stakeholders of the Institute for Online Health Trainings, which aims to transfer scientific knowledge related to this research into routine healthcare.
Label Included: 0

Title: Online platform for healthy weight loss in adults with overweight and obesity - the "POEmaS" project: a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Obesity is a major health problem in Brazil affecting 19% of Brazilian adults with a rising incidence over the last 10 years. Moreover, low fruit/vegetables consumption and high sweetened beverage intake are major issues. Facing the challenge of universal healthcare access, internet-based programs have the potential to reach a large number of inhabitants, be widely accessible and cost effective. Our aim is to to assess the efficacy of a web-based platform to promote weight loss and diet and physical activity habits change in a Brazilian adult population.
METHODS: We designed a three-arm parallel randomized controlled trial including 18-60 years university students or employees with 25 kg/m2 minimum body mass index (BMI). Pregnancy, conditions with specific dietary requirements and participation in other weight loss programs are exclusion criteria. Participants are allocated to one of three groups: (1) waitlist with minimal intervention, (2) web-based platform, (3) web-based platform plus online dietician assistance. Assessors are blinded. Weight and BMI loss are the primary outcomes. Diet and physical activity behaviours, health perception and online activity features are secondary outcomes. The intervention comprises recommendations of diet and physical activity habits tailored to the Brazilian population and principles of behaviour change. The web-based platform has online social network and gamification features. Analysis will be on an intention-to-treat basis at 12 and 24 weeks after baseline. Differences in weight loss between groups will be performed by analysis of covariate. Linear regression will be used to assess whether treatment group allocation is an independent predictor of weight loss. The study was approved by the Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG) Ethics Research Committee. All participants signed an informed consent form prior to recruitment.
DISCUSSION: We present the study protocol of a three arm parallel randomized controlled trial which aims to test the efficacy of an online platform to promote weight loss for adults with overweight and obesity. We anticipate that the adoption of healthy lifestyle habits and weight loss will be more important in participants randomized to the online platform group.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT03435445 on February 16th, 2018.
Label Included: 0

Title: Biotelemetry marches on: A cost-effective GPS device for monitoring terrestrial wildlife.
Abstract: The availability of low-cost wildlife trackers increases the capacity to collect valuable ecological data when research budgets are limited. We converted a commercially available global positioning system (GPS) product into a low-cost tracking device that sends data via the mobile phone network, and assessed its performance under varying conditions. We established a stationary test, deploying devices along a continuum from open urban areas to topographically and structurally complex forested sites. We tested three features of the device: (a) the GPS, by measuring fix success rate, fix precision and horizontal dilution of precision (HDOP), (b) remote download capacity via the mobile phone network and (c) battery drain. Measures of GPS performance demonstrated high fix success rates and precision. HDOP values were influenced by habitat type and topographical position, but generally remained very low, giving an acceptable degree of error for most applications in wildlife research. Devices experienced delayed data transmission at sites with less phone reception, and faster battery drain at sites with denser vegetation. We recorded device malfunctions in 8.2% of the 110 sampling locations, but these were not associated with habitat type or topography. Our device was effective under a wide range of conditions, and the development process we used provides guidance to other researchers aiming to develop cost-effective wildlife trackers. Reducing the financial and labour costs of acquiring high-quality movement data will improve the capacity to increase sample size in animal movement studies.
Label Included: 0

Title: COSTS OF HOME-BASED TELEMEDICINE PROGRAMS: A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to systematically investigate existing literature on the costs of home-based telemedicine programs, and to further summarize how the costs of these telemedicine programs vary by equipment and services provided.
METHODS: We undertook a systematic review of related literature by searching electronic bibliographic databases and identifying studies published from January 1, 2000, to November 30, 2017. The search was restricted to studies published in English, results from adult patients, and evaluation of home telemedicine programs implemented in the United States. Summarized telemedicine costs per unit of outcome measures were reported.
RESULTS: Twelve studies were eligible for our review. The overall annual cost of providing home-based telemedicine varied substantially depending on specific chronic conditions, ranging from USD1,352 for heart failure to USD206,718 for congestive heart failure (CHF), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and diabetes as a whole. The estimated cost per-patient-visit ranged from USD24 for cancer to USD39 for CHF, COPD, or chronic wound care.
CONCLUSIONS: The costs of home-based telemedicine programs varied substantially by program components, disease type, equipment used, and services provided. All the selected studies indicated that home telemedicine programs reduced care costs, although detailed cost data were either incomplete or not presented in detail. A comprehensive analysis of the cost of home-based telemedicine programs and their determinants is still required before the cost efficiency of these programs can be better understood, which becomes crucial for these programs to be more widely adopted and reimbursed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Forecasting the Value for Money of Mobile Maternal Health Information Messages on Improving Utilization of Maternal and Child Health Services in Gauteng, South Africa: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Limited evidence exists on the value for money of mHealth information programs in low resource settings.
OBJECTIVE: This study sought to model the incremental cost-effectiveness of gradually scaling up text messaging services to pregnant women throughout Gauteng province, South Africa from 2012 to 2017.
METHODS: Data collection occurred as part of a retrospective study in 6 health centers in Gauteng province. Stage-based short message service (SMS) text messages on maternal health were sent to pregnant women twice per week during pregnancy and continued until the infant's first birthday. Program costs, incremental costs to users, and the health system costs for these women were measured along with changes in the utilization of antenatal care visits and childhood immunizations and compared with those from a control group of pregnant women who received no SMS text messages. Incremental changes in utilization were entered into the Lives Saved Tool and used to forecast lives saved and disability adjusted life years (DALYs) averted by scaling up program activities over 5 years to reach 60% of pregnant women across Gauteng province. Uncertainty was characterized using one-way and probabilistic uncertainty analyses.
RESULTS: Five-year program costs were estimated to be US $1.2 million, 17% of which were incurred by costs on program development and 31% on SMS text message delivery costs. Costs to users were US $1.66 to attend clinic-based services, nearly 90% of which was attributed to wages lost. Costs to the health system included provider time costs to register users (US $0.08) and to provide antenatal care (US $4.36) and postnatal care (US $3.08) services. Incremental costs per DALY averted from a societal perspective ranged from US $1985 in the first year of implementation to US $200 in the 5th year. At a willingness-to-pay threshold of US $2000, the project had a 40% probability of being cost-effective in year 1 versus 100% in all years thereafter.
CONCLUSIONS: Study findings suggest that delivering SMS text messages on maternal health information to pregnant and postpartum women may be a cost-effective strategy for bolstering antenatal care and childhood immunizations, even at very small margins of coverage increases. Primary data obtained prospectively as part of more rigorous study designs are needed to validate modeled results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a medication monitor-based treatment strategy for drug-sensitive tuberculosis patients in China: study protocol for a cluster randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment for drug-sensitive tuberculosis (TB) is taken for at least 6 months and problems with adherence are common. Therefore, there is substantial interest in the possible use of eHealth interventions to support patients to take their treatment. Electronic medication monitors have been shown to improve adherence to TB medication, but the impact on clinical outcomes is unknown. We aim to evaluate the impact of a medication monitor-based treatment strategy for drug-sensitive TB patients on a composite poor outcome measured over 18 months from start of TB treatment.
METHODS/DESIGN: We will conduct an open, pragmatic, cluster randomised superiority trial, with 24 counties/districts in three provinces in China, randomised 1:1 to implement the intervention or standard of care. Adults (aged ≥ 18 years) with a new episode of GeneXpert-positive and rifampicin-sensitive pulmonary TB, who plan to be in the study area for the next 18 months, and will receive daily fixed-dose combination tablets for 6 months of treatment are eligible. The intervention is centred around a medication monitor that holds a 1-month supply of medication and has three key functions: as an audio and visual reminder for patients to take their daily medication; reminds patients of upcoming monthly visit; and records date and time whenever the box is opened. At the monthly follow-up visit, the doctor downloads these data to generate a graphical display of the last month's adherence record for discussion with the patient and potentially to switch the patient to more intensive management. The primary outcome is a composite poor outcome measured over 18 months from start of TB treatment, defined as either of poor outcome at the end of treatment (death, treatment failure, or loss to follow-up) or subsequent recurrence (culture positive for TB at 12 or 18 months or re-starting TB treatment in the follow-up period). An economic evaluation will also be conducted as part of this study.
DISCUSSION: This trial will assess whether a medication monitor-based treatment strategy can improve clinical outcomes for TB patients. Several trials of other eHealth interventions for TB treatment are ongoing and are summarised in this paper. This trial will provide an important part of the emerging evidence base for the potential of eHealth to improve TB treatment outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial was registered with Current Controlled Trials (identifier: ISRCTN35812455 ). Registered on May 19, 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telepharmacy for the management of cardiovascular patients in the community.
Abstract: Telepharmacy is devised to provide pharmacy operations and patient care at a distance and to expand access to healthcare, enhance patients' safety and improve patient outcomes. A variety of technologies, models of care and interventions are used to develop and provide telepharmacy services, serving diversified populations with different pathological conditions, including cardiovascular diseases. Unfortunately, very few randomized controlled studies have evaluated the clinical efficacy of the implementation of telepharmacy services in the management of various cardiovascular conditions, with the strongest evidence being limited to telemonitoring studies in the areas of hypertension and diabetes. Although the clinical efficacy of telepharmacy, and its cost effectiveness, are far from being fully proved, the inclusion of telepharmacy services in healthcare models may offer the unique opportunity to increase access to screening and improve care of cardiovascular conditions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home Telemonitoring of Community-Dwelling Heart Failure Patients After Home Care Discharge.
Abstract: Background:Home telemonitoring (HTM) is a promising approach to improve quality of life (QoL) and decrease hospital utilization.Methods:This randomized-controlled study followed 89 community-dwelling Medicare outpatients with heart failure (HF) after discharge from home care for 6 months. Patients were randomized to HTM or comprehensive outpatient management (COM). HTM received weekly (video) televisits with daily vital sign monitoring. COM was contacted weekly by telephone. Outcomes included emergency department (ED) and inpatient utilization and QoL.Results: Average age at enrollment was 81.4 for HTM and 84.9 for COM. Thirty-eight percent of HTM had ≥1 ED visit versus 60% of COM (p = 0.04), while 48% of HTM had ≥1 hospitalization versus 55% of COM (p = 0.47). Length of stay (LOS) (days) was 4.0 for HTM versus 7.4 for COM (p = 0.39). Costs were $38,990 for HTM versus $50,943 for COM (p = 0.91). QoL improved by -9.66 for HTM and -3.56 for COM (p = 0.02). Although HF-related utilization did not differ between groups, HTM patients who were highly adherent obtained better all-cause outcomes than those with low adherence.Conclusions:Significantly improved all-cause ED utilization, LOS, and QoL were found for HTM; other differences were not significant. More research is needed to determine how to best utilize this technology to improve patient outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Teleconsultation for the Pharmaceutical Care of HIV Outpatients in Receipt of Home Antiretrovirals Delivery: Clinical, Economic, and Patient-Perceived Quality Analysis.
Abstract: Background/Introduction:Pharmacist teleconsultations, combined with home drug delivery or mail-order pharmacy (MOP), can help hospital outpatients with difficulties accessing treatment. The objectives of this study are to describe a teleconsultation protocol and to evaluate clinical, economic, and patient-perceived quality results.Materials and Methods:A cohort observational study was carried out for 3 years on HIV outpatients. Clinical variables were adherence, plasma HIV-RNA, and CD4+ levels. A pharmacoeconomic analysis was carried out through a cost-minimization study. Patient-perceived quality was assessed through a satisfaction survey. Simple random sampling was performed for 95% safety, accuracy ±1%, and losses ±20%.Results:The 38 participants (sample size) consisted of 82% male patients, aged 44.7 ± 8.4 years. There were 854 teleconsultations and 100% treatment adherence. All HIV outpatients kept virally suppressed (p = 1.00) and maintained a controlled immunological level (p = 0.87). The economic evaluation revealed 137 ± 23 € patient/year costs-saved and 18.5 ± 7.2 h/patient/year working time gained. Patient-perceived quality average score was >9.4 out of 10 in all items; the most valued factors were the saving of direct costs and reconciliation with work commitments (45%) and the least valued attributes were making the payment for the shipment and having to adjust to a telephone appointment (41%).Discussion/Conclusions:A teleconsultation protocol associated with home antiretrovirals delivery or MOP obtains a high degree of satisfaction from the HIV hospital outpatients receiving treatment, without repercussions on the therapeutic objectives and with the saving of important direct costs for the patient and indirect costs in relation to labor productivity.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tele-Emergency Services in the Himalayas.
Abstract: Introduction:Nonavailability of emergency healthcare services in mountainous, isolated, and sparsely populated regions is a universal problem. In a first of its kind initiative, Tele-emergency services (TES) was provided in Keylong and Kaza in Himachal Pradesh in Northern India, at an altitude of 3,353 meters with temperatures of -30°C during winter months.Methods:Existing rooms in regional hospital (Keylong) and community health center (Kaza) were converted into tele-emergency centers by connecting them, to a state-of-the-art emergency department at the Joint Commission International-accredited Apollo Main Hospital at Chennai, 2,925 km away. Training was carried out at both ends. Average turnaround time for an emergency teleconsult was less than 12 minutes. Tele-ECG, Spirometry, and Point-of-Care Diagnostics for blood biochemistry were made available.Results:In the first 35 months, 753 teleconsults were given in the 24/7 TES, out of a total of 10,213 teleconsults constituting 7.4%. Out of a total of 6,442 telelaboratory tests, 431 tests were done in an emergency setting constituting 6.7%. Of the 16 cases of myocardial infarction remotely diagnosed, 4 were thrombolysed through telementoring. Of seven patients with Supra Ventricular Tachycardia, six patients were stabilized through electrical cardioversion and one through chemical cardioversion through telementoring. Ten deaths were documented, of which one occurred at the site. One hundred ninety-six were stabilized and transferred to higher centers. Thirteen required helicopter evacuations. Detailed analysis revealed that the total average cost for a single emergency teleconsult during this period was US$208.Conclusions:Preliminary analysis confirms that delivering TES in inhospitable terrains in a Public Private Partnership mode is doable and is welcomed by the community.
Label Included: 0

Title: Exploring the costs and effectiveness of the Drug and Alcohol Withdrawal Network: a home-based alcohol and other drug withdrawal service.
Abstract: The Drug and Alcohol Withdrawal Network (DAWN) is a home-based withdrawal service based in Perth, Western Australia. Literature on outcomes, costs and client attitudes towards this type of home-based detoxification in Australia is sparse. Therefore, this study assessed these factors for clients enrolled over a 5-year period (July 2011-June 2016). Client experience was explored through semi-structured interviews with 10 clients. Over the study period, 1800 clients (54% male, mean age 38 years) were assessed, and there were 2045 episodes of care. Although most first-episode clients (52%) listed alcohol as the primary drug of concern, the proportion listing methamphetamine increased from 4% in 2011-12 to 23% in 2015-16. In 94% (n=639) of withdrawal detoxification episodes with completed surveys, clients used their 'drug of primary concern' most days or more often at baseline; this had reduced to 23% (n=149) at the conclusion of detoxification. Five-year direct costs were A$4.8million. Clients valued the person-centred holistic approach to care, including linking with other health providers. Barriers included low awareness of the program and difficulties finding an appropriate support person. Further exploration of cost-effectiveness would substantiate the apparently lower per client cost, assuming medical suitability for both programs, for home-based relative to inpatient withdrawal.
Label Included: 0

Title: Recent Advances in Delivering Mental Health Treatment via Video to Home.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Telemental health has rapidly evolved as technology and policy advances have allowed new and innovative approaches, including the remote delivery of services directly to patients' homes. This review examined the literature on video to home (VTH) delivery of mental health services to synthesize information regarding (1) the comparative clinical effectiveness of VTH to in-person mental health treatment, (2) impact of VTH on treatment adherence, (3) patient and provider satisfaction with VTH, (4) cost effectiveness of VTH, and (5) clinical considerations for VTH use.
RECENT FINDINGS: Clinical effectiveness, treatment adherence, and patient satisfaction outcomes are comparable for VTH and in-person delivery of psychotherapy and psychiatric consultation services. Clinical applications for VTH have expanded in an effort to provide mental health care to difficult to reach, underserved populations. VTH is less costly than in-person care when assuming that patients could employ existing personal technologies. VTH delivery offers a safe and effective option for increasing access to mental health care for patients who face logistical and stigma-related barriers to receiving in-person treatment. VTH should be routinely offered to patients as an option for receiving care, maximizing patient choice, and coordination of care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Value co-creation in healthcare: evidence from innovative therapeutic alternatives for hereditary angioedema.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Our research focuses on the co-creation of value in healthcare with reference to a case of hereditary angioedema with C1 inhibitor deficiency (C1-INH-HAE). Our work is mainly based on the concept of value co-creation in healthcare. The aim of this study is to assess the impact of an alternative treatment strategy - self-administration - by focusing on treatment outcomes and costs to understand if innovative therapeutic solutions can create value for patients and healthcare systems.
METHODS: This paper compares home-based and hospital-based therapeutic strategies (independent of treatment type) with a cost minimization analysis. It encompasses compliance issues and focuses on both payer and societal perspectives, also benefiting from an operationalization of the service-dominant logic model for healthcare delivery. Data were collected over a 6-month period (August 2014-January 2015) through monthly patient interviews. Archival data were used for variable measurement.
RESULTS: Thirty-nine out of 62 patients enrolled in the study, experienced at least one HAE attacks, equally distributed between home and hospital-based strategies. No evidence of correlation between therapeutic strategy and disease severity score (p = 0.351), compliance (p = 0.399), and quality of life (p = 0.971), were found. Total direct cost per attack amounts to € 1224 for home-based strategy with respect to € 1454 for hospital-based strategy, with a savings of € 230. The economic advantage of the home-based strategy almost doubles if the societal perspective was considered due to a further savings of €169 (less missed work/school days and no travel expenses).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that home-based therapies represent a feasible strategy for managing C1-INH-HAE and may result in lower costs and increased value for both patients and the healthcare systems. The findings are relevant to the debate on and extend the extant literature to provide a broader view of value co-creation dynamics for home-based therapies in healthcare and their positive effects. The insights are relevant to practitioners and policy makers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient-Centered eHealth Interventions for Children, Adolescents, and Adults With Sickle Cell Disease: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease is an inherited blood disorder that affects over 100,000 Americans. Sickle cell disease-related complications lead to significant morbidity and early death. Evidence supporting the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of self-management electronic health (eHealth) interventions in chronic diseases is growing; however, the evidence is unclear in sickle cell disease.
OBJECTIVE: We systematically evaluated the most recent evidence in the literature to (1) review the different types of technological tools used for self-management of sickle cell disease, (2) discover and describe what self-management activities these tools were used for, and (3) assess the efficacy of these technologies in self-management.
METHODS: We reviewed literature published between 1995 and 2016 with no language limits. We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, and other sources. We followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. Two independent reviewers screened titles and abstracts, assessed full-text articles, and extracted data from articles that met inclusion criteria. Eligible studies were original research articles that included texting, mobile phone-based apps, or other eHealth interventions designed to improve self-management in pediatric and adult patients with sickle cell disease.
RESULTS: Of 1680 citations, 16 articles met all predefined criteria with a total of 747 study participants. Interventions were text messaging (4/16, 25%), native mobile apps (3/16, 19%), Web-based apps (5/16, 31%), mobile directly observed therapy (2/16, 13%), internet-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy (2/16, 13%), electronic pill bottle (1/16, 6%), or interactive gamification (2/16, 13%). Interventions targeted monitoring or improvement of medication adherence (5/16, 31%); self-management, pain reporting, and symptom reporting (7/16, 44%); stress, coping, sleep, and daily activities reporting (4/16, 25%); cognitive training for memory (1/16, 6%); sickle cell disease and reproductive health knowledge (5/16, 31%); cognitive behavioral therapy (2/16, 13%); and guided relaxation interventions (1/16, 6%). Most studies (11/16, 69%) included older children or adolescents (mean or median age 10-17 years; 11/16, 69%) and 5 included young adults (≥18 years old) (5/16, 31%). Sample size ranged from 11 to 236, with a median of 21 per study: <20 in 6 (38%), ≥20 to <50 in 6 (38%), and >50 participants in 4 studies (25%). Most reported improvement in self-management-related outcomes (15/16, 94%), as well as high satisfaction and acceptability of different study interventions (10/16, 63%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our systematic review identified eHealth interventions measuring a variety of outcomes, which showed improvement in multiple components of self-management of sickle cell disease. Despite the promising feasibility and acceptability of eHealth interventions in improving self-management of sickle cell disease, the evidence overall is modest. Future eHealth intervention studies are needed to evaluate their efficacy, effectiveness, and cost effectiveness in promoting self-management in patients with sickle cell disease using rigorous methods and theoretical frameworks with clearly defined clinical outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile therapeutic attention for treatment-resistant schizophrenia (m-RESIST): a prospective multicentre feasibility study protocol in patients and their caregivers.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS) is a severe form of schizophrenia. In the European Union, approximately 40% of people with schizophrenia have TRS. Factors such as the persistence of positive symptoms or higher risk of comorbidities leave clinicians with a complex scenario when treating these patients. Intervention strategies based on mHealth have demonstrated their ability to support and promote self-management-based strategies. Mobile therapeutic attention for treatment-resistant schizophrenia (m-RESIST), an innovative mHealth solution based on novel technology and offering high modular and flexible functioning, has been developed specifically for patients with TRS and their caregivers. As intervention in TRS is a challenge, it is necessary to perform a feasibility study before the cost-effectiveness testing stage.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This manuscript describes the protocol for a prospective multicentre feasibility study in 45 patients with TRS and their caregivers who will be attended in the public health system of three localities: Hospital Santa Creu Sant Pau (Spain), Semmelweis University (Hungary) and Gertner Institute & Sheba Medical Center (Israel). The primary aim is to investigate the feasibility and acceptability of the m-RESIST solution, configured by three mHealth tools: an app, wearable and a web-based platform. The solution collects data about acceptability, usability and satisfaction, together with preliminary data on perceived quality of life, symptoms and economic variables. The secondary aim is to collect preliminary data on perceived quality of life, symptoms and economic variables.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study protocol, funded by the Horizon 2020 Programme of the European Union, has the approval of the ethics committees of the participating institutions. Participants will be fully informed of the purpose and procedures of the study, and signed inform consents will be obtained. The results will be published in peer-reviewed journals and presented in scientific conferences to ensure widespread dissemination.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03064776; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis in Telehealth: A Comparison between Home Telemonitoring, Nurse Telephone Support, and Usual Care in Chronic Heart Failure Management.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost effectiveness of home telemonitoring (HTM) and nurse telephone support (NTS) compared with usual care (UC) in the management of patients with chronic heart failure, from a third-party payer's perspective.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model with a 20-year time horizon to analyze the cost effectiveness using the original study (Trans-European Network-Home-Care Management System) and various data sources. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to assess the decision uncertainty in our model.
RESULTS: In the original scenario (which concerned the cost inputs at the time of the original study), HTM and NTS interventions yielded a difference in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained compared with UC: 2.93 and 3.07, respectively, versus 1.91. An incremental net monetary benefit analysis showed €7,697 and €13,589 in HTM and NTS versus UC at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of €20,000, and €69,100 and €83,100 at a WTP threshold of €80,000, respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were €12,479 for HTM versus UC and €8,270 for NTS versus UC. The current scenario (including telenurse cost inputs in NTS) yielded results that were slightly different from those for the original scenario, when comparing all New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes of severity. NTS dominated HTM, compared with UC, in all NYHA classes except NYHA IV.
CONCLUSIONS: This modeling study demonstrated that HTM and NTS are viable solutions to support patients with chronic heart failure. NTS is cost-effective in comparison with UC at a WTP of €9000/QALY or higher. Like NTS, HTM improves the survival of patients in all NYHA classes and is cost-effective in comparison with UC at a WTP of €14,000/QALY or higher.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Future of Precision Medicine: Potential Impacts for Health Technology Assessment.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Precision medicine allows healthcare interventions to be tailored to groups of patients based on their disease susceptibility, diagnostic or prognostic information, or treatment response. We analysed what developments are expected in precision medicine over the next decade and considered the implications for health technology assessment (HTA) agencies.
METHODS: We performed a pragmatic literature search to account for the large size and wide scope of the precision medicine literature. We refined and enriched these results with a series of expert interviews up to 1 h in length, including representatives from HTA agencies, research councils and researchers designed to cover a wide spectrum of precision medicine applications and research.
RESULTS: We identified 31 relevant papers and interviewed 13 experts. We found that three types of precision medicine are expected to emerge in clinical practice: complex algorithms, digital health applications and 'omics'-based tests. These are expected to impact upon each stage of the HTA process, from scoping and modelling through to decision-making and review. The complex and uncertain treatment pathways associated with patient stratification and fast-paced technological innovation are central to these effects.
DISCUSSION: Innovation in precision medicine promises substantial benefits but will change the way in which some health services are delivered and evaluated. The shelf life of guidance may decrease, structural uncertainty may increase and new equity considerations will emerge. As biomarker discovery accelerates and artificial intelligence-based technologies emerge, refinements to the methods and processes of evidence assessments will help to adapt and maintain the objective of investing in healthcare that is value for money.
Label Included: 0

Title: Position paper: Telemedicine in occupational dermatology - current status and perspectives.
Abstract: Teledermatology is the use of telecommunication technologies to exchange medical information for diagnosis, consultation, treatment and teaching in dermatology. While its use has been evaluated in a wide range of dermatological diagnoses, only few studies exist on its validity, diagnostic precision, feasibility, and cost-effectiveness in occupational dermatology. However, these studies show a considerable potential for diagnosis, prevention, treatment support and follow-up of patients with occupational skin diseases. Asynchronous (store and forward; SAF) or synchronous dermatology teleconsults could assist occupational medicine specialists not only in occupational preventive care, but also in the context of skin cancer screening in outdoor workers. Thus, teledermatology might contribute to earlier prevention and notification of occupational skin diseases. Modern smartphone apps with artificial intelligence technologies may also facilitate self-monitoring in employees working in high-risk jobs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of an app-based intervention for unintentional injury among caregivers of preschoolers: protocol for a cluster randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Each year, over 15,000 preschoolers die from unintentional injuries in China. Many interventions proven to work in other nations have not been implemented nationwide in China. The rapid popularity of smartphones offers an opportunity to overcome this limitation and disseminate evidence-based interventions to the large population of China. This study aims to assess the effectiveness of an app-based intervention for caregivers of preschoolers to prevent unintentional injury among young Chinese children.
METHOD: A single-blinded, 6-month, parallel-group cluster randomized controlled trial with 1:1 allocation ratio will be conducted in Changsha, China. In total, 2626 caregivers of preschoolers ages 3-6 years old who own a smartphone will be recruited from 20 preschools. Clusters will be randomized at the preschool level and allocated to either the control group (routine education plus app-based parenting education excluding unintentional injury prevention) or the intervention group (routine education plus app-based parenting education including unintentional injury prevention). The app-based injury prevention program was developed based on the Theory of Planned Behavior, the Haddon Matrix, the Mobile Learning framework, and a needs assessment. Data collection will be conducted at baseline, 3-month, and 6-month follow-up via app-based survey plus printed questionnaire survey. The primary outcome measure is unintentional injury incidence among preschoolers in the past 3 months. Secondary outcome measures include economic losses due to unintentional injury in the past 3 months, the Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratios (ICERs), and parent's attitudes and behaviors concerning supervision to prevent preschooler unintentional injury in the past week. An intention-to-treat approach will be used to evaluate outcome measures. Chi-square tests will examine differences for outcome measures between groups at each time point and generalized estimation equations (GEE) will test the overall effectiveness of the app-based intervention. Missing outcome data will be imputed using the Expectation Maximization algorithm (EM).
DISCUSSION: This trial will examine evidence concerning the effectiveness of an innovative app-based intervention for caregivers of Chinese preschoolers. If effective, the app-based intervention could offer an effective population-based intervention option to cost-effectively promote unintentional injury prevention in countries and regions where injury control is under-supported.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ChiCTR-IOR-17010438 . Registered 15 January 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: Delivering Value-Based Care With E-Health Services.
Abstract: The emergence of value-based healthcare requires new approaches for physicians and their organizations in serving their patients. Traditional medical practices have centered on physicians detecting and responding to patients' needs, but with new payment models and technologies, practitioners will be required to prevent health issues from developing. Transitions of care and service coordination among providers and specialists need to be seamless as patients are educated about their health issues and better connected to their medical information. A key enabler of this change will be how well patients can collaborate with their care teams, and several e-health disciplines catalyze this process. In fact, there is an e-health imperative to affect outcomes and patient experiences while lowering costs.The Triple Aim objectives of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement are more achievable with the integration of e-health tools and services with clinical care. The mobile revolution and improvements in data management practices now make improved care coordination possible throughout a patient's journey. Telehealth services facilitate connected care and inform physicians with data that flow into a patient portal, which improves risk monitoring and enables proactive treatment. The growing use of social media fosters community development, which enables patients to share experiences with others, further empowering consumerism in healthcare delivery. Finally, e-health tools enable customization of care for large populations as we stratify patient groups. Clinical data scientists and informaticists partner with physicians to establish and operationalize programs that identify new best practices and drive behavior change-especially for those patients with costly chronic conditions and comorbidities. E-health disciplines are the lifeblood of a system that engages patients in new ways to help them and their physicians adhere to practices that support value-based care.
Label Included: 0

Title: The use of eHealth with immunizations: An overview of systematic reviews.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: eHealth interventions may help increase vaccination uptake and health literacy related to immunization and improve immunization program efficiency.
OBJECTIVES: To see where and how eHealth technologies have had a positive impact on immunization practices-using eHealth strategies to increase vaccination uptake, improve immunization program efficiency and advance heath literacy related to immunizations.
METHODS: An overview of systematic reviews was conducted, searching PubMed, Scopus, Embase, and Web of Science for systematic reviews published through August 2017 for eHealth and immunizations (using pre-determined concepts for each). Two independent reviewers selected studies based on a priori criteria; disagreement was resolved by consensus. The quality of the included studies was evaluated using the Measurement Tool to Assess Systematic Reviews (AMSTAR).
RESULTS: The primary search identified 198 results. After eliminating duplicates 158 remained. Upon applying the a priori set criteria to these, six articles were left to analyze. Four articles showed a positive relationship (a demonstrated benefit, improvement, increase in vaccination uptake, etc. when using eHealth technologies for immunization), one showed a promising relation / with potential, and one showed unknown effects as it focused on the difficulty of analyzing cost-benefits of immunization information systems (IIS).
CONCLUSION: The review leads to a recommendation of using eHealth technologies to encourage immunizations and increase vaccination adherence and uptake and to continue assessing and documenting the use of eHealth for immunization.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine/Virtual ICU: Where Are We and Where Are We Going?
Abstract: Intensive care unit telemedicine (tele-ICU) is technology enabled care delivered from off-site locations that was developed to address the increasing complexity of patients and insufficient supply of intensivists. Although tele-ICU deployment is increasing, it continues to cover only a small proportion of ICU patients. This is primarily due to expense, with first-year costs exceeding $50,000 per bed. Meta-analyses of outcomes indicate survival benefits and quality improvements, albeit with significant heterogeneity. Depending on the context, a wide range of estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios reflects variable effects on cost and outcomes, such as mortality or length of stay. Tele-ICUs may fit within a hybrid model of care to complement high-intensity ICU staff coverage. However, more research is required to foster consensus and determine best practices. This review summarizes data on tele-ICU structure, operations, outcomes, and costs. Evidence was extracted from meta-analyses, with secondary data from Cleveland Clinic's tele-ICU experience.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of early and intensive nutrition care, delivered via telephone or mobile application, on quality of life in people with upper gastrointestinal cancer: study protocol of a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A major challenge for those living with cancers of the upper gastrointestinal tract (oesophagus, stomach and pancreas), is the impact of the disease and treatment on nutritional status and quality of life. People with cancer and malnutrition have a greater risk of morbidity and mortality. Nutrition intervention is recommended to commence immediately in those who are malnourished or at risk of malnutrition. Novel cost-effective approaches that can deliver early, pre-hospital nutrition intervention before usual hospital dietetic service is commenced are needed. Linking clinicians and patients via mobile health (mHealth) and wireless technologies is a contemporary solution not yet tested for delivery of nutrition therapy to people with cancer. The aim of this study is to commence nutrition intervention earlier than usual care and evaluate the effects of using the telephone or mHealth for intervention delivery. It is hypothesised that participants allocated to receive the early and intensive pre-hospital dietetic service will have more quality-adjusted life years lived compared with control participants. This study will also demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of mHealth for the nutrition management of patients at home undergoing cancer treatment.
METHODS: This study is a prospective three-group randomised controlled trial, with a concurrent economic evaluation. The 18 week intervention is provided in addition to usual care and is delivered by two different modes, via telephone (group 1) or via mHealth (group 2), The control group receives usual care alone (group 3). The intervention is an individually tailored, symptom-directed nutritional behavioural management program led by a dietitian. Participants will have at least fortnightly reviews. The primary outcome is quality adjusted life years lived and secondary outcomes include markers of nutritional status. Outcomes will be measured at three, six and 12 months follow up.
DISCUSSION: The findings will provide evidence of a strategy to implement early and intensive nutrition intervention outside the hospital setting that can favourably impact on quality of life and nutritional status. This patient-centred approach is relevant to current health service provision and challenges the current reactive delivery model of care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: 27th January 2017 Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry ( ACTRN12617000152325 ).
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of a comprehensive interactive eHealth intervention on patient-reported and clinical outcomes in patients with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator [ACQUIRE-ICD trial]: study protocol of a national Danish randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In Denmark and other countries, there has been a shift in the management of patients with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) with remote device monitoring largely replacing in-hospital visits. Less patient-nurse and patient-physician interaction may lead to gaps in patients' quality of care and impede patients' adaptation to living successfully with the ICD. A comprehensive eHealth intervention that include goal-setting, monitoring of symptoms of depression, anxiety, and quality of life, psychological treatment, information provision, supportive tools, online dialogues with nursing staff and access to an online community network, may help fill these gaps and be particularly beneficial to patients who suffer from anxiety and depression. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of the ACQUIRE-ICD care innovation, a comprehensive and interactive eHealth intervention, on patient-reported and clinical outcomes.
METHODS: The ACQUIRE-ICD study is a multicenter, prospective, two-arm, unblinded randomised controlled superiority trial that will enroll 478 patients implanted with a first-time ICD or ICD with cardiac synchronisation therapy (CRT-D) from the six implanting centers in Denmark. The trial will evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the ACQUIRE-ICD care innovation, as add-on to usual care compared with usual care alone. The primary endpoint, device acceptance, assessed with the Florida Patient Acceptance Survey, is evaluated at 12 months' post implant. Secondary endpoints, evaluated at 12 and 24 months' post implant, include patient-reported outcomes, return to work, time to first ICD therapy and first hospitalisation, mortality and cost-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: The effectiveness of a comprehensive and interactive eHealth intervention that relies on patient-centred and personalised tools offered via a web-based platform targeted to patients with an ICD has not been assessed so far. The ACQUIRE-ICD care innovation promotes and facilitates that patients become active participants in the management of their disease, and as such addresses the need for a more patient-centered disease-management approach. If the care innovation proves to be beneficial to patients, it may not only increase patient empowerment and quality of life but also free up time for clinicians to care for more patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial has been registered on https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02976961 on November 30, 2016 with registration number [ NCT02976961 ].
Label Included: 0

Title: Methods to Measure the Impact of mHealth Applications: Preliminary Results of a Scoping Review.
Abstract: Important requirements for mHealth, the availability of devices and network connectivity have dramatically improved in the past years globally. mHealth applications are being developed at a rapid pace. But a thorough impact assessment is not routinely performed. We performed a scoping review to compile an overview of evaluation methods used to assess mHealth applications. Preliminary results are reported here, and a full scoping review is in preparation. Qualitative measurement of user experience is common. A number of studies measured the impact of the mHealth intervention on clinical outcomes. Few measured usability and end-user experience. Assessment of the impact on treatment process was rare and evaluations of cost and cost-effectiveness analyses are rarely ever done. An evaluation framework for mHealth interventions that includes disease-appropriate clinical outcome measures, use experience measure but also an economic component in form of cost comparison of the intervention with the standard of care should be developed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Expanding Palliative Medicine across Care Settings: One Health System Experience.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The success of our hospital-based Palliative Care program stimulated requests to duplicate the program across the health system continuum of care.
OBJECTIVE: To develop a model of care focused on a high-need, high-cost population that could be implemented across all care settings, including hospitals and patients' homes.
METHODS: To fiscally support program expansion from hospital to home, we conducted a retrospective cost analysis for home-based Palliative Care (HBPC)-enrolled patients with continuous claims months before program enrollment through date of death. The HBPC enrollees were evaluated against a cohort group of CMS (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Service) and Medicare Advantage patients who did not participate in the HBPC program (n = 3135). Twenty-one months of claims leading up to the date of death were evaluated for both populations. The analysis was designed to test whether Palliative Care patients demonstrated less overall claims expense and service utilization in the same periods as patients without Palliative Care. Claim months were grouped into three-month clusters for evaluation and statistical testing of per member per month utilization and cost.
RESULTS: Overall, HBPC patients demonstrated significantly less service utilization and cost in the months leading up to death. Cost differences were primarily driven by clear cost divergence in the last three months of life [$9,843 (PC) vs. $27,530 (C)]. Our program grew from a hospital-based program to include the establishment of a home-based program.
CONCLUSION: Palliative Care programs can successfully expand outside hospital walls to serve a high need/high-cost patient population.
Label Included: 0

Title: Discharged but not dissatisfied: outcomes and satisfaction of patients discharged from the Edinburgh Trauma Triage Clinic.
Abstract: AIMS: The Edinburgh Trauma Triage Clinic (TTC) streamlines outpatient care through consultant-led 'virtual' triage of referrals and the direct discharge of minor fractures from the Emergency Department. We compared the patient outcomes for simple fractures of the radial head, little finger metacarpal, and fifth metatarsal before and after the implementation of the TTC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 628 patients who had sustained these injuries over a one-year period were identified. There were 337 patients in the pre-TTC group and 289 in the post-TTC group. The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Score (QuickDASH) or Foot and Ankle Disability Index (FADI), EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D), visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score, satisfaction rates, and return to work/sport were assessed six months post-injury. The development of late complications was excluded by an electronic record evaluation at three years post-injury. A cost analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Outcomes were as good or better post-TTC, compared with pre-TTC scores. At three years, the pre-TTC group required a total of 496 fracture clinic appointments compared with 61 in the post-TTC group. Mean cost per patient was nearly fourfold less after the commencement of the TTC.
CONCLUSION: Management of minor fractures through the Edinburgh TTC results in clinical outcomes that are comparable with the previous system of routine face-to-face consultation. Outpatient workload for these injures was reduced by 88%. Cite this article: Bone Joint J 2018;100-B:959-65.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine: A systematic review of economic evaluations.
Abstract: Background: Telemedicine is an expanded term in health information technology that comprises procedures for transmitting medical information electronically to improve patients' health status. The objective of this research is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of telemedicine interventions in various specialty areas. Methods: The Cochrane Library and Centre for Review and Dissemination were searched up to February 2013 using Mesh. Studies that compared any kind of telemedicine with any other routine care technique and used cost per health utility unit's outcomes were included. Results: Twenty-one articles were included. According to the included studies, it seems that using telemedicine in cardiology can be effective and cost-effective enough but pre-hospital telemedicine diagnostics program are likely to have little impact on acute myocardial infarction fatality. In pulmonary, telemedicine can be a cost-effective strategy for delivering outpatient pulmonary care to rural populations which have limited access to specialized services, but telemedicine is not cost- effective in asthma and airways cancer. In ophthalmology, especially in the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy, the use of telemedicine is a cost-effective tool. In dermatology, telemedicine is not cost-effective enough in comparison of conventional cares. In other fields such as physical activity and diet, eating disorder, tele-ICU, psychotherapy for depression and telemedicine on ships, telemedicine can be used as a cost-effective tool for treatments or cares. Conclusion: Most of the included studies confirmed that telemedicine is cost-effective for applying in major medical fields such as cardiology; but in dermatology, papers could not confirm the positive capability of telemedicine.
Label Included: 0

Title: What makes online substance-use interventions engaging? A systematic review and narrative synthesis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Online substance-use interventions are effective in producing reductions in harmful-use. However, low user engagement rates with online interventions reduces overall effectiveness of interventions. Identifying optimal strategies with which to engage users with online substance-use interventions may improve usage rates and subsequent effectiveness.
OBJECTIVES: (1) To identify the most prevalent engagement promoting strategies utilised to increase use of online substance-use interventions. (2) To determine whether the identified engagement promoting strategies increased said use of online substance-use interventions.
REVIEW METHODS: The reviewed followed Cochrane methodology. Databases were searched for online substance-use interventions and engagement promoting strategies limited by study type (randomised controlled trial). Due to heterogeneity between engagement promoting strategies and engagement outcomes, meta-analytic techniques were not possible. Narrative synthesis methods were used.
RESULTS: Fifteen studies were included. Five different engagement promoting strategies were identified: (1) tailoring; (2) delivery strategies; (3) incentives; (4) reminders; (5) social support. The most frequently reported engagement promoting strategies was tailoring (47% of studies), followed by reminders and social support (40% of studies) and delivery strategies (33% of studies). The narrative synthesis demonstrated that tailoring, multimedia delivery of content and reminders are potential techniques for promoting engagement. The evidence for social support was inconclusive and negative for incentives.
CONCLUSIONS: This review was the first to examine engagement promoting strategies in solely online substance-use interventions. Three strategies were identified that may be integral in promoting engagement with online substance-use interventions. However, the small number of eligible extracted studies, inconsistent reporting of engagement outcomes and diversity of engagement features prevent firmer conclusions. More high-quality trials examining engagement are required.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hereditary angioedema: Clinical presentation and socioeconomic cost of 200 French patients.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: A Systematic Review of Asynchronous, Provider-to-Provider, Electronic Consultation Services to Improve Access to Specialty Care Available Worldwide.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Electronic consultation (eConsult) is an asynchronous electronic communication tool allowing primary care providers to obtain a specialist consultant's expert opinion in a timely manner, thereby offering a potential solution to excessive wait times for specialist care, which remain a serious concern in many countries.
INTRODUCTION: Our 2014 review of eConsult services demonstrated feasibility and high acceptability among patients and providers. However, gaps remain in knowledge regarding eConsult's impact on system costs and patient outcomes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Following the PRISMA guidelines, we conducted a systematic review in May 2017 of English and French literature on OVID Medline, EMBASE, ERIC, and CINAHL databases, examining all studies on eConsult services published since our previous review. The Quadruple Aim Framework was used to synthesize outcomes. Articles reporting on the impact of eConsult on access, patient safety and satisfaction, utilization rates, clinical workflow, and continuing medical education were analyzed using a narrative synthesis approach.
RESULTS: The initial search yielded 1,021 results, 50 of which were included on abstract and received a quality assessment and full text review. Of these, 43 were included in our final analysis. Results demonstrated the worldwide presence of eConsult services in North America and countries beyond, including Brazil, Australia, Spain, and The Netherlands. The breadth of specialty services offered has greatly expanded beyond dermatology and includes cardiology, nephrology, and hematology among others. Overall impact on access measures, acceptability, cost, and provider satisfaction remain positive. There is limited research on population health outcomes of morbidity and mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The availability of eConsult services has spread both geographically and in terms of specialty services offered. By allowing for a greater population to be served, access to care is being improved; however, long-term impact should continue to be assessed with a focus on patient safety, morbidity, mortality, and cost effectiveness metrics.
Label Included: 0

Title: Follow-up study regarding the medium-term effectiveness of the home-visiting program "Pro Kind" at age 7 years: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pro Kind is a German adaptation of the US Nurse Family Partnership program. It is an intervention based on home visits targeting first-time mothers from disadvantaged populations. Pro Kind was implemented as a randomized control trial from 2006 to 2012 with N = 755 first-time mothers (TG n = 394, CG n = 391). The 7-8-year follow-up aims to assess the mid-term effects of the program.
METHODS/DESIGN: Mid-term outcomes are being assessed by trained assessors. In a multimethod approach telephone interviews, on-site interviews, observations and developmental tests will be held in order to assess children's and mothers' life satisfaction, mental health, cognitive and social development, parenting behavior, signs of child abuse or neglect as well as the family's socio-economic status. Furthermore, administrative data will be accessed to obtain information regarding the mother's usage of pediatric health care, welfare usage and employment history.
DISCUSSION: Results regarding the mid-term effects of the intervention from the Pro Kind Follow-up will provide a scientific basis for future primary prevention programs as well as help stakeholders legitimizing early childhood investments.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trial Registration DRKS-ID, ID: DRKS00007554 . Registered on 11 June 2015, updated on 6 October 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: An exploration of the attitudes and views of general practitioners on the use of video consultations in a primary healthcare setting: a qualitative pilot study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In 2014, in the United Kingdom, the government made a commitment to spend £3.6 million on the introduction of Skype video calling consultations in general practice, however the efficacy of such technology has not yet been explored fully.AimThe study aimed to explore the views and attitudes of General Practitioners (GPs) towards video consultation in primary care; specifically, in three broad areas ∙The benefits of video consultations to patients and healthcare professionals.∙Potential problems with video consultation and its implementation.∙The cost-effectiveness of video consultation in this setting.
METHOD: A convenience sample of the views of 12 general practitioners across two primary care centres in North London were identified using topic guide based semi-structured interviews. A thematic framework approach was used to analyse the data collected to isolate main and sub-themes.FindingsThree main themes were identified 1.Technology - GPs expressed concerns about the ability of patients to use technology, the availability of technology and the quality of technology available.2.Utility - encompassing GP's ideas about the usefulness of video consultations to patients, practitioners and the doctor-patient relationship. GPs presented mixed views on the extent to which video consultation would be useful.3.Practicality - covering the views of GPs on implementation and effects on workload. GPs unanimously felt that it was not a practical substitute for face-to-face consultation. There were mixed feelings about it being used as an alternative to telephone consultation.
CONCLUSION: GPs did see potential benefits to using video consultations but also expressed concerns that need to be addressed if they are to have full confidence in the system. The views of those who are going to use video consultation as a means of increasing patient access are paramount if such tools are to be a core part of primary care.
Label Included: 0

Title: A mobile revolution for healthcare? Setting the agenda for bioethics.
Abstract: Mobile health (mHealth) is rapidly being implemented and changing our ways of doing, understanding and organising healthcare. mHealth includes wearable devices as well as apps that track fitness, offer wellness programmes or provide tools to manage chronic conditions. According to industry and policy makers, these systems offer efficient and cost-effective solutions for disease prevention and self-management. While this development raises many ethically relevant questions, so far mHealth has received only little attention in medical ethics. This paper provides an overview of bioethical issues raised by mHealth and aims to draw scholarly attention to the ethical significance of its promises and challenges. We show that the overly positive promises of mHealth need to be nuanced and their desirability critically assessed. Finally, we offer suggestions to bioethicists to engage with this emerging trend in healthcare to develop mHealth to its best potential in a morally sound way.
Label Included: 0

Title: E-health for active ageing; A systematic review.
Abstract: Enabling successful active ageing is an international priority to meet the challenges of increasing life expectancy. Digital strategies, such as telemedicine and e-health, offer the potential to deliver active ageing in a cost-effective manner at scale. This article aims to establish the extent to which the research literature considers e-health-based and telemedicine-based active ageing interventions. A systematic review was conducted according to PRISMA standards. Independently, two authors searched the Cochrane, EMBASE & CINAHL databases, with subsequent independent extraction and semi-quantitative analysis. We report a considerable breadth in digital active ageing research, which is truly international in its scope. There is a diverse range of both interventions and technologies, including a reassuring focus on community-based interventions. Whilst there are a number of quantitative studies, sample sizes are small, with a limited amount of statistical testing of the results. There is significant variation in the outcome measures reported and little consensus as to the most effective intervention strategies. Overall, whilst there is considerable breadth to the research published in the literature, there is a clear restriction in the depth of this research. There is little overall consensus. This lack of depth and consensus may be due to the need to recognize the important role of technical research elements alongside more traditional research methodologies, such as randomized controlled trials. Enabling both technical and clinical research methods to be recognized, in tandem, has enormous potential to support individuals, communities, clinicians and policy makers to make more informed decisions in relation to active ageing.
Label Included: 0

Title: A qualitative study of midwives' perceptions on using video-calling in early labor.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Decisions made in early labor influence the outcomes of childbirth for women and infants. Telephone assessment during labor, the current norm in many settings, has been found to be a source of dissatisfaction for women and can present challenges for midwives. The aim of this qualitative study was to explore midwives' views on the potential of video-calling as a method for assessing women in early labor.
METHODS: A series of 8 midwife focus groups (n = 45) and interviews (n = 4) in the Midlands region of England and the mid-South and Northeast regions of the United States were completed. Audio recordings were transcribed verbatim and coded using content analysis. Coding diagrams were used to help develop major themes in the data.
RESULTS: Midwives were generally positive about the potential of video-calling in early labor and using visual cues to make more accurate assessments and to enhance trust. Some midwives expressed concerns about privacy, both for themselves and for women, and issues of accessibility. They suggested strategies for implementation and further research, such as the need for a private space in birth facilities and training for both staff and service users.
CONCLUSIONS: Video-calling was seen as a viable option for assessment of women in early labor with some particular challenges related to implementation. This research focused on midwives' views; the views of women and their families should also be considered. There is a lack of evidence on the clinical and cost effectiveness of video-calling in maternity care and further research is warranted.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluations of eHealth technologies: A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Innovations in eHealth technologies have the potential to help older adults live independently, maintain their quality of life, and to reduce their health system dependency and health care expenditure. The objective of this study was to systematically review and appraise the quality of cost-effectiveness or utility studies assessing eHealth technologies in study populations involving older adults.
METHODS: We systematically searched multiple databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, NHS EED, and PsycINFO) for peer-reviewed studies published in English from 2000 to 2016 that examined cost-effectiveness (or utility) of eHealth technologies. The reporting quality of included studies was appraised using the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards statement.
RESULTS: Eleven full text articles met the inclusion criteria representing public and private health care systems. eHealth technologies evaluated by these studies includes computerized decision support system, a web-based physical activity intervention, internet-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy, telecare, and telehealth. Overall, the reporting quality of the studies included in the review was varied. Most studies demonstrated efficacy and cost-effectiveness of an intervention using a randomized control trial and statistical modeling, respectively. This review found limited information on the feasibility of adopting these technologies based on economic and organizational factors.
CONCLUSIONS: This review identified few economic evaluations of eHealth technologies that included older adults. The quality of the current evidence is limited and further research is warranted to clearly demonstrate the long-term cost-effectiveness of eHealth technologies from the health care system and societal perspectives.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine for the management of neuropsychiatric symptoms in long-term care facilities: the DETECT study, methods of a cluster randomised controlled trial to assess feasibility.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPSs) in elderly patients with dementia are frequent in long-term care facilities (LTCFs) and are associated with adverse events. Telemedicine is an emerging way to provide consultation and care to dependent LTCF residents who may not have easy access to specialty services. Several studies have evaluated telemedicine for dementia care but to date, no study has evaluated its impact in the management of NPS in patients with dementia living in LTCF.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The Dementia in long-term care facilities: Telemedicine for the management of neuropsychiatric symptoms (DETECT) study is a 24-month multicentre prospective cluster randomised controlled study with two arms: a control arm (usual care) and an intervention arm (telemedicine consultation) for NPSs management. DETECT enrolled 20 LTCFs. The primary outcome is based on the acceptability of the telemedicine among the LTCF staff which will be assessed in the intervention group by quantitative and qualitative indicators. The rate of unscheduled hospitalisations and/or consultations due to disruptive NPSs, psychotropic drug use and health costs will be described in both groups. Approximately, 200 patients are expected to be recruited.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study protocol was approved and sponsored by the French Ministry of Health. The study received ethical approval from the Toulouse University Hospital Institutional Review Board. We will communicate the final results to the public via conferences and results will also be submitted for publication in international peer-reviewed scientific journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02472015.
Label Included: 0

Title: An eHealth Program for Patients Undergoing a Total Hip Arthroplasty: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Total hip arthroplasty is an effective surgical procedure commonly used worldwide for patients suffering the disabling effects of osteoarthritis when medical therapy is unsuccessful. Traditionally pre- and postoperative information for patients undergoing a hip arthroplasty has been provided by paper-based methods. Electronic health (eHealth) programs to support individualized patient education on preoperative preparation, in-patient care, and home rehabilitation have the potential to increase patient engagement, enhance patient recovery, and reduce potential postoperative complications.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to compare the addition of an eHealth program versus standard care for pre- and postoperative education on patient outcomes for primary total hip arthroplasty.
METHODS: One hundred patients undergoing a primary elective total hip arthroplasty will be recruited from a metropolitan hospital in Western Australia to participate in a 6-month parallel randomized control trial. Participants will be randomized to either the standard care group (n=50) and will be given the education booklet and enrolled to attend a 1-hour education session, or the intervention group (n=50), and will receive the same as the standard care plus access to an eHealth program titled "My Hip Journey." The eHealth program encourages the patient to log in daily, from 2 weeks prior to surgery to 30 days postsurgery. The information on the platform will be aligned with the patient's individual surgical journey and will include exercises to be completed each day for the duration of the program. The primary outcome measure is the Hip Dysfunction and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, version LK 2.0. Secondary outcome measures include the EuroQoL EQ-5D-5L, a 5-level 5-dimension quality of life measure, and the Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease Scale. Data will be collected at pre-admission (presurgery) and at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months postsurgery. A patient satisfaction survey will be completed 6 weeks postsurgery and Web-based analytics will be collected 6 months postsurgery. A cost-effectiveness analysis, using the intention-to-treat principle, will be conducted from the hospital's perspective.
RESULTS: Enrollment in the study commenced in January 2018 with recruitment due for completion towards the end of the year. The first results are expected to be submitted for publication in 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: The outcomes and cost of using an eHealth program to support a patient's recovery from a hip arthroplasty will be compared with standard care in this study. If the eHealth program is found to be effective, further implementation across clinical practice could lead to improvement in patient outcomes and other surgical areas could be incorporated.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR) ACTRN12617001433392; https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=373657&isReview=true (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6yzoTuggx).
REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER: RR1-10.2196/9654.
Label Included: 0

Title: Benefit of an electronic medical record-based alarm in the optimization of stress ulcer prophylaxis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The use of stress ulcer prophylaxis (SUP) has risen in recent years, even in patients without a clear indication for therapy.
AIM: To evaluate the efficacy of an electronic medical record (EMR)-based alarm to improve appropriate SUP use in hospitalized patients.
METHODS: We conducted an uncontrolled before-after study comparing SUP prescription in intensive care unit (ICU) patients and non-ICU patients, before and after the implementation of an EMR-based alarm that provided the correct indications for SUP.
RESULTS: 1627 patients in the pre-intervention and 1513 patients in the post-intervention cohorts were included. The EMR-based alarm improved appropriate (49.6% vs. 66.6%, p<0.001) and reduced inappropriate SUP use (50.4% vs. 33.3%, p<0.001) in ICU patients only. These differences were related to the optimization of SUP in low risk patients. There was no difference in overt gastrointestinal bleeding between the two cohorts. Unjustified costs related to SUP were reduced by a third after EMR-based alarm use.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of an EMR-based alarm improved appropriate and reduced inappropriate use of SUP in ICU patients. This benefit was limited to optimization in low risk patients and associated with a decrease in SUP costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Sensing Cell-Culture Assays with Low-Cost Circuitry.
Abstract: An alternative approach for cell-culture end-point protocols is proposed herein. This new technique is suitable for real-time remote sensing. It is based on Electrical Cell-substrate Impedance Spectroscopy (ECIS) and employs the Oscillation-Based Test (OBT) method. Simple and straightforward circuit blocks form the basis of the proposed measurement system. Oscillation parameters - frequency and amplitude - constitute the outcome, directly correlated with the culture status. A user can remotely track the evolution of cell cultures in real time over the complete experiment through a web tool continuously displaying the acquired data. Experiments carried out with commercial electrodes and a well-established cell line (AA8) are described, obtaining the cell number in real time from growth assays. The electrodes have been electrically characterized along the design flow in order to predict the system performance and the sensitivity curves. Curves for 1-week cell growth are reported. The obtained experimental results validate the proposed OBT for cell-culture characterization. Furthermore, the proposed electrode model provides a good approximation for the cell number and the time evolution of the studied cultures.
Label Included: 0

Title: Advances in Photopletysmography Signal Analysis for Biomedical Applications.
Abstract: Heart Rate Variability (HRV) is an important tool for the analysis of a patient&rsquo;s physiological conditions, as well a method aiding the diagnosis of cardiopathies. Photoplethysmography (PPG) is an optical technique applied in the monitoring of the HRV and its adoption has been growing significantly, compared to the most commonly used method in medicine, Electrocardiography (ECG). In this survey, definitions of these technique are presented, the different types of sensors used are explained, and the methods for the study and analysis of the PPG signal (linear and nonlinear methods) are described. Moreover, the progress, and the clinical and practical applicability of the PPG technique in the diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases are evaluated. In addition, the latest technologies utilized in the development of new tools for medical diagnosis are presented, such as Internet of Things, Internet of Health Things, genetic algorithms, artificial intelligence and biosensors which result in personalized advances in e-health and health care. After the study of these technologies, it can be noted that PPG associated with them is an important tool for the diagnosis of some diseases, due to its simplicity, its cost⁻benefit ratio, the easiness of signals acquisition, and especially because it is a non-invasive technique.
Label Included: 0

Title: COPD Home Oxygen Therapy and Home Mechanical Ventilation: Improving Admission-Free Survival in Persistent Hypercapnic COPD.
Abstract: As seen in this CME online activity (available at http://journal.cme.chestnet.org/copd-hot-hmv), acute exacerbations of COPD are associated with significant levels of morbidity and mortality. Acute noninvasive ventilation has been demonstrated its clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness in reducing intubation rate and mortality and in patients with acute decompensated hypercapnic exacerbations of COPD. However, those patients with evidence of chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure have worse long-term outcomes compared with patients who have only transient hypercapnia during the acute phase returning to eucapnia in the recovery stage. Indeed, there are limited options available to improve the clinical outcome in these COPD patients with persistent hypercapnia. The Home Oxygen Therapy-Home Mechanical Ventilation (HOT-HMV) trial investigated admission-free survival in patients with persistent hypercapnia following a life-threatening exacerbation requiring acute noninvasive ventilation. Phenotyping patients to ensure chronic hypercapnia enriched the trial population to identify those patients at highest risk of readmission or death following an exacerbation. The addition of home noninvasive ventilation to home oxygen therapy in patients with persistent hypercapnia led to improved admission-free survival. The noninvasive ventilation was titrated to overnight measures of transcutaneous CO2 to achieve control of nocturnal hypoventilation, which improved daytime chronic respiratory failure. Home noninvasive ventilation is a complex intervention requiring a multidisciplinary team and long-term patient follow-up to maximize the clinical benefit to the patient.
Label Included: 0

Title: Physical Activity and Related Psychosocial Outcomes From a Pilot Randomized Trial of an Interactive Voice Response System-Supported Intervention in the Deep South.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Physical activity exerts cancer-protective effects, yet most Americans are inactive, especially in the South, where cancer incidence rates are generally higher. Telephone-based approaches can help overcome physical activity intervention barriers in this region (literacy, costs, lack of transportation/technology, distance from facilities) and can be automated via interactive voice response (IVR) systems for improved reach and cost-effectiveness.
AIMS: To evaluate the Deep South IVR-supported Active Lifestyle (DIAL) intervention.
METHOD: A pilot randomized controlled trial was conducted among 63 underactive adults in Birmingham, Alabama, from 2015 to 2017.
RESULTS: Retention was 88.9% at 12 weeks, and ≥75% adherence (IVR contact on at least 63 out of 84 days) was noted among 62.5% of intervention participants. Intervention participants reported larger increases in self-reported minutes of moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity from baseline to 12 weeks than the wait-list control arm (median change = 47.5 vs. 5.0 minutes, respectively, p = .09). Moreover, the intervention produced significantly greater increases in physical activity self-regulation ( p < .001) and social support from family ( p = .001) and friends ( p = .009) from baseline to 12 weeks, compared with the wait-list control. Significant decreases in self-reported sleep disturbance also were found in the intervention arm but not among the controls, p < .05. Overall, intervention participants reported being satisfied with the DIAL program (71.4%) and would recommend it to friends (92.9%).
DISCUSSION: Findings support the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of the DIAL intervention.
CONCLUSION: Next steps include intervention refinement in preparation for a fully powered efficacy trial and eventual dissemination to rural counties.
Label Included: 0

Title: New Models of Care: How Pharmacists Can Provide Better Care at Lower Costs.
Abstract: Pharmacists, highly trained and accessible health care professionals, continue to be underused in American communities. Helping pharmacists to make the best use of their extensive clinical education and skills is a primary focus for the discipline's leaders. The University of Connecticut School of Pharmacy's PRISM initiative ( PeRformance I mprovement for Safe Medication Management) creates opportunities to partner with other health professionals or programs to advance the pharmacist's role in the community. All stakeholders must understand the evolving health care climate as society moves toward "health care without walls" (i. e., health care that is innovative, convenient, and likely to be entirely different than previous models). This article discusses progress made in Connecticut to advance pharmacy practice and describes programs that, if replicated in other areas of the country, could significantly improve care for vulnerable populations, especially the elderly. Programs that have been especially useful have emphasized the difference between needing medical versus pharmacy services, and approached provision of care in entirely new ways.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-utility analysis of searching electronic health records and cascade testing to identify and diagnose familial hypercholesterolaemia in England and Wales.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The cost effectiveness of cascade testing for familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is well recognised. Less clear is the cost effectiveness of FH screening when it includes case identification strategies that incorporate routinely available data from primary and secondary care electronic health records.
METHODS: Nine strategies were compared, all using cascade testing in combination with different index case approaches (primary care identification, secondary care identification, and clinical assessment using the Simon Broome (SB) or Dutch Lipid Clinic Network (DLCN) criteria). A decision analytic model was informed by three systematic literature reviews and expert advice provided by a NICE Guideline Committee.
RESULTS: The model found that the addition of primary care case identification by database search for patients with recorded total cholesterol >9.3 mmol/L was more cost effective than cascade testing alone. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of clinical assessment using the DLCN criteria was £3254 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) compared with case-finding with no genetic testing. The ICER of clinical assessment using the SB criteria was £13,365 per QALY (compared with primary care identification using the DLCN criteria), indicating that the SB criteria was preferred because it achieved additional health benefits at an acceptable cost. Secondary care identification, with either the SB or DLCN criteria, was not cost effective, alone (dominated and dominated respectively) or combined with primary care identification (£63, 514 per QALY, and £82,388 per QALY respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Searching primary care databases for people at high risk of FH followed by cascade testing is likely to be cost-effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: "Pay for Success" Financing and Home-Based Multicomponent Childhood Asthma Interventions: Modeling Results From the Detroit Medicaid Population.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: Policy Points: The Pay for Success (PFS) financing approach has potential for scaling the implementation of evidence-based prevention interventions in Medicaid populations, including a range of multicomponent interventions for childhood asthma that combine home environment risk mitigation with medical case management. Even though this type of intervention is efficacious and cost-saving among high-risk children with asthma, the main challenges for implementation in a PFS context include legal and regulatory barriers to capturing federal Medicaid savings and using them as a source of private investor repayment. Federal-level policy change and guidance are needed to support PFS financing of evidence-based interventions that would reduce expensive acute care among Medicaid enrollees.
CONTEXT: Pay for Success has emerged as a potential financing mechanism for innovative and cost-effective prevention programs. In the PFS model, interventions that provide value to the public sector are implemented with financing from private investors who receive a payout from the government only if the metrics identified in a performance-based contract are met. In this nascent field, little has been written about the potential for and challenges of PFS initiatives that produce savings and/or value for Medicaid.
METHODS: In order to elucidate the basic economics of a PFS intervention in a Medicaid population, we modeled the potential impact of an evidence-based multicomponent childhood asthma intervention among low-income children enrolled in Medicaid in Detroit. We modeled outcomes and a comparative benefit-cost analysis in 3 risk-based target groups: (1) all children with an asthma diagnosis; (2) children with an asthma-related emergency department visit in the past year; and (3) children with an asthma-related hospitalization in the past year. Modeling scenarios for each group produced estimates of potential state and federal Medicaid savings for different types or levels of investment, the time frames for savings, and some overarching challenges.
FINDINGS: The PFS economics of a home-based asthma intervention are most viable if it targets children who have already experienced an expensive episode of asthma-related care. In a 7-year demonstration, the overall (undiscounted) modeled potential savings for Group 2 were $1.4 million for the federal Medicaid and $634,000 for the state Medicaid programs, respectively. Targeting children with at least 1 hospitalization in the past year (Group 3) produced estimated potential savings of $2.8 million to federal Medicaid and $1.3 million to state Medicaid. However, current Medicaid rules and regulations pose significant challenges for capturing federal Medicaid savings for PFS payouts.
CONCLUSIONS: A multicomponent intervention that provides home remediation and medical case management to high-risk children with asthma has significant potential for PFS financing in urban Medicaid populations. However, there are significant administrative and payment challenges, including the limited ability to capture federal Medicaid savings and to use them as a source of investor repayment. Without some policy reform and clear guidance from the federal government, the financing burden of PFS outcome payments will be on the state Medicaid program or some other state-level funding source.
Label Included: 0

Title: Preventing chronic disease in patients with low health literacy using eHealth and teamwork in primary healthcare: protocol for a cluster randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Adults with lower levels of health literacy are less likely to engage in health-promoting behaviours. Our trial evaluates the impacts and outcomes of a mobile health-enhanced preventive intervention in primary care for people who are overweight or obese.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A two-arm pragmatic practice-level cluster randomised trial will be conducted in 40 practices in low socioeconomic areas in Sydney and Adelaide, Australia. Forty patients aged 40-70 years with a body mass index ≥28 kg/m2 will be enrolled per practice. The HeLP-general practitioner (GP) intervention includes a practice-level quality improvement intervention (medical record audit and feedback, staff training and practice facilitation visits) to support practices to implement the clinical intervention for patients. The clinical intervention involves a health check visit with a practice nurse based on the 5As framework (assess, advise, agree, assist and arrange), the use of a purpose-built patient-facing app, my snapp, and referral for telephone coaching. The primary outcomes are change in health literacy, lifestyle behaviours, weight, waist circumference and blood pressure. The study will also evaluate changes in quality of life and health service use to determine the cost-effectiveness of the intervention and examine the experiences of practices in implementing the programme.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has been approved by the University of New South Wales (UNSW) Human Research Ethics Committee (HC17474) and ratified by the University of Adelaide Human Research Ethics committee. There are no restrictions on publication, and findings of the study will be made available to the public via the Centre for Primary Health Care and Equity website and through conference presentations and research publications. Deidentified data and meta-data will be stored in a repository at UNSW and made available subject to ethics committee approval.
TRIAL REGISTRATIONREGISTRATION NUMBER: ACTRN12617001508369; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Healing and Empowering Alaskan Lives Toward Healthy-Hearts (HEALTHH) Project: Study protocol for a randomized controlled trial of an intervention for tobacco use and other cardiovascular risk behaviors for Alaska Native People.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tobacco use and tobacco-related diseases disproportionately affect Alaska Native (AN) people. Using telemedicine, this study aims to identify culturally-tailored, theoretically-driven, efficacious interventions for tobacco use and other cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk behaviors among AN people in remote areas.
DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial with two intervention arms: 1) tobacco and physical activity; 2) medication adherence and a heart-healthy AN diet.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants are N = 300 AN men and women current smokers with high blood pressure or high cholesterol.
INTERVENTIONS: All participants receive motivational, stage-tailored, telemedicine-delivered counseling sessions at baseline and 3, 6, and 12 months follow-up; an individualized behavior change plan that is updated at each contact; and a behavior change manual. In Group 1, the focus is on tobacco and physical activity; a pedometer is provided and nicotine replacement therapy is offered. In Group 2, the focus is on medication adherence for treating hypertension and/or hypercholesterolemia; a medication bag and traditional food guide are provided.
MEASUREMENTS: With assessments at baseline, 3, 6, 12, and 18 months, the primary outcome is smoking status, assessed as 7-day point prevalence abstinence, biochemically verified with urine anabasine. Secondary outcomes include physical activity, blood pressure and cholesterol, medication compliance, diet, multiple risk behavior change indices, and cost-effectiveness.
COMMENTS: The current study has the potential to identify novel, feasible, acceptable, and efficacious interventions for treating the co-occurrence of CVD risk factors in AN people. Findings may inform personalized treatment and the development of effective and cost-effective intervention strategies for use in remote indigenous communities more broadly. Clinical Trial Registration # NCT02137902.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient and facility variation in costs of catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness or value of cardiovascular therapies may be undermined by unwarranted cost variation, particularly for heterogeneous procedures such as catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation (AF). We sought to characterize cost variation of AF ablation in the US healthcare system and the relationship between cost and outcomes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We performed a retrospective cohort study using data from the MarketScan® commercial claims and Medicare supplemental databases including patients who received an AF ablation from 2007 to 2011. We aggregated encounter cost, reflecting total payments received for the encounter, to the facility level to calculate median facility cost. We classified procedures as outpatient or inpatient and assessed for association between cost and 30-day and 1-year outcomes. The analysis cohort included 9,415 AF ablations (59±11 years; 28% female; 52% outpatient) occurring at 327 facilities, with large cost variation across facilities (median: $25,100; 25th percentile: $18,900, 75th percentile: $35,600, 95th percentile: $57,800). Among outpatient procedures, there was reduced healthcare utilization in higher cost quintiles with reductions in rehospitalization at 30-days (Quintile 1: 16.1%, Quintile 5: 8.8%, P < 0.001) and 1-year (Quintile 1: 34.8%, Quintile 5: 25.6%, P < 0.001), which remained significant in multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Although median costs of AF ablation are below amounts used in prior cost-effectiveness studies that demonstrated good value, large facility variation in cost suggests opportunities for cost reduction. However, for outpatient encounters, association of cost to modestly improved outcomes suggests cost containment strategies could have variable effects.
Label Included: 0

Title: Predicting therapy success for treatment as usual and blended treatment in the domain of depression.
Abstract: In this paper, we explore the potential of predicting therapy success for patients in mental health care. Such predictions can eventually improve the process of matching effective therapy types to individuals. In the EU project E-COMPARED, a variety of information is gathered about patients suffering from depression. We use this data, where 276 patients received treatment as usual and 227 received blended treatment, to investigate to what extent we are able to predict therapy success. We utilize different encoding strategies for preprocessing, varying feature selection techniques, and different statistical procedures for this purpose. Significant predictive power is found with average AUC values up to 0.7628 for treatment as usual and 0.7765 for blended treatment. Adding daily assessment data for blended treatment does currently not add predictive accuracy. Cost effectiveness analysis is needed to determine the added potential for real-world applications.
Label Included: 0

Title: Early motion and directed exercise (EMADE) versus usual care post ankle fracture fixation: study protocol for a pragmatic randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Following surgical fixation of ankle fractures, the traditional management has included immobilisation for 6 weeks in a below-knee cast. However, this can lead to disuse atrophy of the affected leg and joint stiffness. While early rehabilitation from 2 weeks post surgery is viewed as safe, controversy remains regarding its benefits. We will compare the effectiveness of early motion and directed exercise (EMADE) ankle rehabilitation, against usual care, i.e. 6 weeks' immobilisation in a below-knee cast.
METHOD/DESIGN: We have designed a pragmatic randomised controlled trial (p-RCT) to compare the EMADE intervention against usual care. We will recruit 144 independently living adult participants, absent of tissue-healing comorbidities, who have undergone surgical stabilisation of isolated Weber B ankle fractures. The EMADE intervention consists of a non-weight-bearing progressive home exercise programme, complemented with manual therapy and education. Usual care consists of immobilisation in a non-weight-bearing below-knee cast. The intervention period is between week 2 and week 6 post surgery. The primary outcome is the Olerud and Molander Ankle Score (OMAS) patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) at 12 weeks post surgery. Secondary PROMs include the EQ-5D-5 L questionnaire, return to work and return to driving, with objective outcomes including ankle range of motion. Analysis will be on an intention-to-treat basis. An economic evaluation will be included.
DISCUSSION: The EMADE intervention is a package of care designed to address the detrimental effects of disuse atrophy and joint stiffness. An advantage of the OMAS is the potential of meta-analysis with other designs. Within the economic evaluation, the cost-utility analysis, may be used by commissioners, while the use of patient-relevant outcomes, such as return to work and driving, will ensure that the study remains pertinent to patients and their families. As it is being conducted in the clinical environment, this p-RCT has high external validity. Accordingly, if significant clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness are demonstrated, EMADE should become a worthwhile treatment option. A larger-scale, multicentre trial may be required to influence national guidelines.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN, ID: ISRCTN11212729 . Registered retrospectively on 20 March 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: Making sense of telemedicine in the management of COPD.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine Delivery and Successful Reimbursement in Toxicology.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Telemedicine and its use in medical toxicology have existed for some time. There are varied definitions, but existing ones center on using currently available forms of audio, video, and internet communications to provide "real-time" patient care. Definitions have historically limited reimbursement but recently expanded CMS guidelines have improved this. Here we describe our experience with telemedicine and reimbursement.
METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted of all toxicology and billing reimbursement for fiscal year 2016 for a solo Medical Toxicology service. Clinical identifiers were used to match telemedicine consults to hospital financial databases and then removed. Telemedicine consults were isolated, quantified, and described.
RESULTS: A total of 16 telemedicine consults were conducted. Average age was 37.2 (range 2 months-82 years). Gender was evenly split at 8:8. Twenty-five percent were pediatric consultations. The main purposes of consultation were as follows: diagnosis and disease management in drug ingestion, triage assistance, clearance consults, antidote administration, and buprenorphine induction. At the time of the work, $1896.00 for 9.3 h of teletoxicology services was reimbursed equating to an hourly reimbursement rate of $203.90/h.
LIMITATIONS: Our data was obtained from a toxicology practice with a surrounding infrastructure dedicated to telemedicine. All sites may not have this robust ancillary support. Furthermore, not all states have reimbursement mandates such as New York State.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first published work describing pilot data in the successful reimbursement for Medical Toxicology services delivered via telemedicine. Toxicology via telemedicine represents a great opportunity for advancing the practice of toxicology in an economically feasible way, particularly in rural or underserved areas.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine Cost-Effectiveness for Diabetes Management: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine has been utilized increasingly worldwide for diabetes management, due to its potential to improve healthcare access and clinical outcomes. Few studies have assessed the economic benefits of telemedicine, which may contribute to underfunding in potentially important programs. We aim to systematically review the literature on economic evaluations of telemedicine in diabetes care, assess the quality, and summarize the evidence on driver of cost-effectiveness.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A literature search was performed in 10 databases from inception until February 2018. All economic evaluations assessing the economic evaluation of telemedicine in diabetes were eligible for inclusion. We subsequently evaluated the study quality in terms of effectiveness measures, cost measure, economic model, as well as time horizon.
RESULTS: Of the 1877 studies identified, 14 articles were included in our final review. The healthcare providers' fees are a major predictor for total cost. In particular, the use of telemedicine for retinal screening was beneficial and cost-effective for diabetes management, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio between $113.48/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and $3,328.46/QALY (adjusted to 2017 inflation rate). Similarly, the use of telemonitoring and telephone reminders was cost-effective in diabetes management.
CONCLUSIONS: Among all telemedicine strategies examined, teleophthalmology was the most cost-effective intervention. Future research is needed to provide evidence on the long-term experience of telemedicine and facilitate resource allocation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Modifiable Risk Factors in Primary Joint Arthroplasty Increase 90-Day Cost of Care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Risk factors in demographics and health status have been identified that increase the risk of complications after joint arthroplasty, necessitating additional care and incurring additional charges. The purpose of this study was to identify the number of patients in a hospital network database who had one or more predefined modifiable risk factors and determine their impact on average length of stay, need for additional care during the 90-day postoperative period, and the 90-day charges for care.
METHODS: An electronic hospital record query of 6968 lower extremity joint arthroplasty procedures under Diagnosis-Related Group 469/470 performed in 2014-2015 was reviewed, and total 90-day charges were calculated. The case mean was compared to charges for patients with modifiable risk factors: anemia (Hgb < 10 g/dL), malnutrition (albumin < 3.4 g/dL), obesity (body mass index > 45 kg/m2), uncontrolled diabetes (random glucose >180 mg/dL or A1C > 8), narcotic use (prescription filled), and tobacco use (documented within 30 days before surgery). Length of stay, emergency room visits, and hospital readmission were compared.
RESULTS: Mean 90-day charges for Diagnosis-Related Group 469/470 were $36,647. Risk factors were associated with a significant increase in 90-day charges: anemia (+$ 15,869/126 patients), malnutrition (+$9270/592), obesity (+$2048/445), diabetes (+$5074/291), narcotic use (+$1801/1943), and tobacco use (+$2034/1882). Intensive care unit admission rate, emergency department visits, and hospital readmission were significantly increased for patients with each risk factor. Length of stay was higher in patients with anemia, malnutrition, diabetes, and tobacco use. When separated by elective vs fracture admission, 90-day charges were significantly higher for each risk factor.
CONCLUSIONS: Medical strategies to optimize patients before joint arthroplasty are warranted to improve postoperative outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Skin Cancer Referral and Consultation Using Teledermoscopy in Australia.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: International literature has shown that teledermoscopy referral may be a viable method for skin cancer referral; however, no economic investigations have occurred in Australia.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of teledermoscopy as a referral mechanism for skin cancer diagnosis and management in Australia.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a decision-analytic model of Australian primary care, informed by publicly available data.
INTERVENTIONS: We compared the costs of teledermoscopy referral (electronic referral containing digital dermoscopic images) vs usual care (a written referral letter) for specialist dermatologist review of a suspected skin cancer.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Cost and time in days to clinical resolution, where clinical resolution was defined as diagnosis by a dermatologist or excision by a general practitioner. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to examine the uncertainty of the main results.
RESULTS: Findings from the decision-analytic model showed that the mean time to clinical resolution was 9 days (range, 1-50 days) with teledermoscopy referral compared with 35 days (range, 0-138 days) with usual care alone (difference, 26 days; 95% credible interval [CrI], 13-38 days). The estimated mean cost difference between teledermoscopy referral (A$318.39) vs usual care (A$263.75) was A$54.64 (95% CrI, A$22.69-A$97.35) per person. The incremental cost per day saved to clinical resolution was A$2.10 (95% CrI, A$0.87-A$5.29).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Using teledermoscopy for skin cancer referral and triage in Australia would cost A$54.64 extra per case on average but would result in clinical resolution 26 days sooner than usual care. Implementation recommendations depend on the preferences of the Australian health system decision makers for either lower cost or expedited clinical resolution. Further research around the clinical significance of expedited clinical resolution and its importance for patients could inform implementation recommendations for the Australian setting.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in Complex Diabetes Management.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Telehealth has the potential to positively transform the quality and cost-effectiveness of complex diabetes management in adults. This review explores the landscape of telemedicine approaches and evidence for incorporation into general practice.
RECENT FINDINGS: Telemedicine for diabetes care is feasible based on over 100 randomized clinical trials. Evidence shows modest benefits in A1c lowering and other clinical outcomes that are better sustained over time vs. usual care. While telemedicine interventions are likely cost-effective in diabetes care, more research is needed using implementation science approaches. Telehealth platforms have been shown to be both feasible and effective for health care delivery in diabetes, although there are many caveats that require tailoring to the institution, clinician, and patient population. Research in diabetes telehealth should focus next on how to increase access to patients who are known to be marginalized from traditional models of health care.
Label Included: 0

Title: A 4-year randomized trial comparing three outreach interventions to promote screening mammograms.
Abstract: As population health has become a focus of health care payers and providers, interest has grown in mail, phone, and other forms of outreach for improving population rates of cancer screening. Translational research is needed to compare the effectiveness and cost of low- and high-intensity behavioral outreach interventions for promoting cancer screening. The purpose of the article is to compare the effectiveness in promoting biannual mammograms of three interventions delivered over 4 years to a primary care population with a high baseline mammography adherence of 83.3%. We randomized women aged 40-84 to reminder letter only (LO arm), letter + reminder call (RC arm), and two letters + counseling call (CC arm) involving tailored education and motivational interviewing. Mammography adherence (≥1 mammogram in the previous 24 months) at four time points was determined from insurance claims records. Over 4 years, 30,162 women were randomized. At the end of 4 years, adherence was highest in the RC arm (83.0%) compared with CC (80.8%) and LO (80.8%) arms (p = .03). Only 23.5% of women in the CC arm were reached and accepted full counseling. The incremental cost per additional mammogram for RC arm women was $30.45 over the LO arm cost. A simple reminder call can increase screening mammogram adherence even when baseline adherence is high. Some more complex behavioral interventions delivered by mail and phone as in this study may be less effective, due to limited participation of patients, a focus on ambivalence, lack of follow-up, and other factors.
Label Included: 0

Title: Longitudinal construct validity of the minimum data set health status index.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Minimum Data Set Health Status Index (MDS-HSI) is a generic, preference-based health-related quality of life (HRQOL) measure derived by mapping items from the Resident Assessment Instrument - Minimum Data Set (RAI-MDS) assessment onto the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 classification system. While the validity of the MDS-HSI has been examined in cross-sectional settings, the longitudinal validity has not been explored. The objective of this study was to investigate the longitudinal construct validity of the MDS-HSI in a home care population.
METHODS: This study utilized a retrospective cohort of home care patients in the Hamilton-Niagara-Haldimand-Brant health region of Ontario, Canada with at least two RAI-MDS Home Care assessments between January 2010 and December 2014. Convergent validity was assessed by calculating Spearman rank correlations between the change in MDS-HSI and changes in six validated indices of health domains that can be calculated from the RAI-MDS assessment. Known-groups validity was investigated by fitting multivariable linear regression models to estimate the mean change in MDS-HSI associated with clinically important changes in the six health domain indices and 15 disease symptoms from the RAI-MDS Home Care assessment, controlling for age and sex.
RESULTS: The cohort contained 25,182 patients with two RAI-MDS Home Care assessments. Spearman correlations between the MDS-HSI change and changes in the health domain indices were all statistically significant and in the hypothesized small to moderate range [0.1 < ρ < 0.5]. Clinically important changes in all of the health domain indices and 13 of the 15 disease symptoms were significantly associated with clinically important changes in the MDS-HSI.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study support the longitudinal construct validity of the MDS-HSI in home care populations. In addition to evaluating changes in HRQOL among home care patients in clinical research, economic evaluation, and health technology assessment, the MDS-HSI may be used in system-level applications using routinely collected population-level data.
Label Included: 0

Title: Personalised telehealth intervention for chronic disease management: A pilot randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to assess the impact of home-based telehealth monitoring on health outcomes, quality of life and costs over 12 months for patients with diabetes and/or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who were identified as being at high risk of readmission to hospital.
METHODS: This pilot study was a randomised controlled trial combined with an economic analysis to examine the outcomes of standard care versus home-based telehealth for people with diabetes and/or COPD who were at risk of hospital readmission within one year. The primary outcomes were (i) hospital admission and length of stay (LOS); and (ii) health-related quality of life (HRQOL); and the secondary outcomes were (i) health-related clinical outcomes; (ii) anxiety and depression scores; and (iii) health literacy. The costs of the intervention and hospitalisations were included.
RESULTS: A total of 86 and 85 participants were randomised to the intervention and control groups respectively. The difference between groups in hospital LOS was -3.89 (95% confidence interval (CI): -9.40, 1.62) days, and for HRQOL, 0.09 (95% CI: 0.05, 0.14) in favour of the telehealth monitoring group. There was a saving of AUD$6553 (95% CI: -12145, -961) in the cost of hospitalisation over 12 months, which offset the increased cost of tele-monitoring. The intervention group showed an improvement in anxiety, depression and health literacy at 12 months, and in the diabetes group, a reduction in microalbuminuria.
DISCUSSION: The telehealth monitoring intervention improved patient's health outcomes and quality of life at no additional cost.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Impact of Disruption of the Care Delivery System by Commercial Laboratory Testing in a Children's Health Care System.
Abstract: CONTEXT.—: Disruption of outpatient laboratory services by routing the samples to commercial reference laboratories may seem like a cost-saving measure by the payers, but results in hidden costs in quality and resources to support this paradigm.
OBJECTIVE.—: To identify differences when outpatient tests are performed at the Children's Healthcare of Atlanta (Children's) Hospital lab compared to a commercial reference lab, and the financial costs to support the reference laboratory testing.
DESIGN.—: Outpatient testing was sent to 3 different laboratories specified by the payer. Orders were placed in the Children's electronic health record, blood samples were drawn by the Children's phlebotomists, samples were sent to the testing laboratory, and results appeared in the electronic health record. Data comparing the time to result, cancelled samples, and cost to sustain the system of ordering and reporting were drawn from multiple sources, both electronic and manual.
RESULTS.—: The median time from phlebotomy to result was 0.7 hours for testing at the Children's lab and 20.72 hours for the commercial lab. The median time from result posting to caregiver acknowledgment was 5.4 hours for the Children's lab and 18 hours for the commercial lab. The commercial lab cancelled 2.7% of the tests; the Children's lab cancelled 0.8%. The financial cost to support online ordering and reporting for testing performed at commercial labs was approximately $640,000 per year.
CONCLUSIONS.—: Tangible monetary costs, plus intangible costs related to delayed results, occur when the laboratory testing system is disrupted.
Label Included: 0

Title: Opportunistic pulse checks in primary care to improve recognition of atrial fibrillation: a retrospective analysis of electronic patient records.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is an important and modifiable risk factor for stroke. Earlier identification may reduce stroke-related morbidity and mortality. Trial evidence shows that opportunistic pulse regularity checks in individuals aged ≥65 years increases detection of AF. However, this is not currently recommended by the National Screening Programme or implemented by most clinical commissioning groups (CCGs).
AIM: To evaluate the impact of a systematic programme to promote pulse regularity checks, the programme's uptake in general practice, and the prevalence of AF.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Retrospective analysis of electronic primary care patient records in three east London CCGs (City and Hackney, Newham, and Tower Hamlets) over 10 years.
METHOD: Rates of pulse regularity checks and prevalence of AF in individuals aged ≥65 years were compared from the pre-intervention period, 2007-2011, to the post-intervention period, 2012-2017.
RESULTS: Across the three CCGs, rates of pulse regularity checks increased from a mean of 7.3% pre-intervention to 66.4% post-intervention, achieving 93.1% (n = 58 722) in the final year. Age-standardised prevalence of AF in individuals aged ≥65 years increased significantly from a pre-intervention mean of 61.4/1000 to a post-intervention mean of 64.5/1000. There was a significant increase in a post-intervention trend to a final-year mean of 67.3/1000: an improvement of 9.6% (5.9/1000) with 790 additional new cases identified.
CONCLUSION: Organisational alignment, standardised data entry, peer-performance dashboards, and financial incentives rapidly and generally increased opportunistic screening with pulse regularity checks. This was associated with a significant increase in detection and prevalence of AF and is of public health importance.
Label Included: 0

Title: MIND at Home-Streamlined: Study protocol for a randomized trial of home-based care coordination for persons with dementia and their caregivers.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dementia is associated with high health care costs, premature long-term care (LTC) placement, medical complications, reduced quality of life, and caregiver burden. Most health care providers and systems are not yet organized or equipped to provide comprehensive long-term care management for dementia, although a range of effective symptoms and supportive care approaches exist. The Maximizing Independence at Home-Streamlined (MIND-S) is a promising model of home-based dementia care coordination designed to efficiently improve person-centered outcomes, while reducing care costs. This report describes the rationale and design of an NIA-funded randomized controlled trial to test the impact of MIND-S on time to LTC placement, person with dementia outcomes (unmet needs, behavior, quality of life), family caregiver outcomes (unmet needs, burden), and cost offset at 18 (primary end point) and 24 months, compared to an augmented usual care group.
METHODS: This is a 24-month, parallel group, randomized trial evaluating MIND-S in a cohort of 304 community-living persons with dementia and their family caregivers in Maryland. MIND-S dyads receive 18 months of care coordination by an interdisciplinary team comprised of trained non-clinical community workers (e.g. Memory Care Coordinators), a registered nurse, and a geriatric psychiatrist. Intervention components include in-home dementia-related needs assessments; individualized care planning; implementation of standardized evidence-based care strategy protocols; and ongoing monitoring and reassessment. Outcomes are assessed by blinded evaluators at baseline, 4.5, 9, 13.5, 18, and 24 months.
DISCUSSION: Trial results will provide rigorous data to inform innovations in effective system-level approaches to dementia care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Acceptability and Feasibility of Real-Time Antiretroviral Therapy Adherence Interventions in Rural Uganda: Mixed-Method Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Wireless electronic adherence monitors can detect antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence lapses and trigger interventions in real time, thus potentially avoiding unnecessary HIV viremia. Evidence about the acceptability and feasibility of these monitors and associated interventions, however, is limited.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the acceptability and feasibility of real-time adherence monitoring linked to text messaging (short message service, SMS) reminders and notifications to support adherence among individuals living with HIV who are taking ART in rural southwestern Uganda.
METHODS: Individuals living with HIV who were initiating ART were enrolled in a pilot randomized controlled trial and followed up for 9 months. Participants received a real-time adherence monitor and were randomized to one of the following study arms: (1) scheduled SMS, (2) SMS triggered by missed or delayed doses, or (3) no SMS. SMS notifications were also sent to 45 patient-identified social supporters for sustained adherence lapses in the scheduled SMS and triggered SMS arms. Study participants and social supporters participated in qualitative semistructured in-depth interviews on acceptability and feasibility of this technology. An inductive, content analytic approach, framed by the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology model, was used to analyze qualitative data. Quantitative feasibility data, including device functionality and SMS tracking data, were recorded based upon device metrics collected electronically and summarized descriptively.
RESULTS: A total of 63 participants participated in the study. Participants reported that real-time monitoring intervention linked to SMS reminders and notifications are generally acceptable; the predominant feedback was perceived utility-the intervention was beneficial in motivating and reminding patients to take medication, as well as enabling provision of social support. The intervention was found to be technically feasible, as data were obtained from most participants as expected most of the time. Potential challenges included the impact of the technology on confidentiality, shared phone ownership, usability skills, and availability of electricity.
CONCLUSIONS: Real-time adherence monitoring integrated with SMS reminders and social support notifications is a generally acceptable (based primarily on perceived utility) and feasible intervention in a resource-limited country. Future efforts should focus on optimized device design, user training to overcome the challenges we encountered, cost effectiveness studies, as well as studying the monitoring aspect of the device without accompanying interventions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01957865; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01957865 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6zFiDlXDa).
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost of Integrating Noncommunicable Disease Screening Into Home-Based HIV Testing and Counseling in South Africa.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Integrated HIV-noncommunicable disease (NCD) services have the potential to avert death and disability but require data on program costs to assess the impact of integrated services on affordability.
METHODS: We estimated the incremental costs of NCD screening as part of home-based HIV testing and counseling (HTC) and referral to care in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. All adults in the households were offered integrated HIV-NCD screening (for HIV, diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, obesity, depression, tobacco, and alcohol use), counseling, and linkage to care. We conducted comprehensive program microcosting including ingredient-based and activity-based costing, staff interviews, and time assessment studies. Sensitivity analyses varied cost inputs and screening efficiency.
RESULTS: Integrating all-inclusive NCD screening as part of home-based HTC in a high HIV prevalence setting increased program costs by $3.95 (42%) per person screened (from $9.36 to $13.31 per person). Integrated NCD screening, excluding point-of-care cholesterol testing, increased program costs by $2.24 (24%). Furthermore, NCD screening integrated into HTC services reduced the number of persons tested by 15%-20% per day.
CONCLUSIONS: Integrated HIV-NCD screening has the potential to efficiently use resources compared with stand-alone services. Although all-inclusive NCD screening could increase the incremental cost per person screened for integrated HIV-NCD services over 40%, a less costly lipid assay or targeted screening would result in a modest increase in costs with the potential to avert NCD death and disability. Our analysis highlights the need for implementation science studies to estimate the cost-effectiveness of integrated HIV-NCD screening and linkage per disability-adjusted life year and death averted.
Label Included: 0

Title: Long term extension of a randomised controlled trial of probiotics using electronic health records.
Abstract: Most randomised controlled trials (RCTs) are relatively short term and, due to costs and available resources, have limited opportunity to be re-visited or extended. There is no guarantee that effects of treatments remain unchanged beyond the study. Here, we illustrate the feasibility, benefits and cost-effectiveness of enriching standard trial design with electronic follow up. We completed a 5-year electronic follow up of a RCT investigating the impact of probiotics on asthma and eczema in children born 2005-2007, with traditional fieldwork follow up to two years. Participants and trial outcomes were identified and analysed after five years using secure, routine, anonymised, person-based electronic health service databanks. At two years, we identified 93% of participants and compared fieldwork with electronic health records, highlighting areas of agreement and disagreement. Retention of children from lower socio-economic groups was improved, reducing volunteer bias. At 5 years we identified a reduced 82% of participants. These data allowed the trial's first robust analysis of asthma endpoints. We found no indication that probiotic supplementation to pregnant mothers and infants protected against asthma or eczema at 5 years. Continued longer-term follow up is technically straightforward.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telerehabilitation versus traditional centre-based pulmonary rehabilitation for people with chronic respiratory disease: protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulmonary rehabilitation is an effective therapeutic intervention for people with chronic respiratory disease. However, fewer than 5% of eligible individuals receive pulmonary rehabilitation on an annual basis, largely due to limited availability of services and difficulties associated with travel and transport. The Rehabilitation Exercise At Home (REAcH) study is an assessor-blinded, multi-centre, randomised controlled equivalence trial designed to compare the efficacy of home-based telerehabilitation and traditional centre-based pulmonary rehabilitation in people with chronic respiratory disease.
METHODS: Participants will undertake an 8-week group-based pulmonary rehabilitation program of twice-weekly supervised exercise training, either in-person at a centre-based pulmonary rehabilitation program or remotely from their home via the Internet. Supervised exercise training sessions will include 30 min of aerobic exercise (cycle and/or walking training). Individualised education and self-management training will be delivered. All participants will be prescribed a home exercise program of walking and strengthening activities. Outcomes will be assessed by a blinded assessor at baseline, after completion of the intervention, and 12-months post intervention. The primary outcome is change in dyspnea score as measured by the Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire - dyspnea domain (CRQ-D). Secondary outcomes will evaluate the efficacy of telerehabilitation on 6-min walk distance, endurance cycle time during a constant work rate test, physical activity and quality of life. Adherence to pulmonary rehabilitation between the two models will be compared. A full economic analysis from a societal perspective will be undertaken to determine the cost-effectiveness of telerehabilitation compared to centre-based pulmonary rehabilitation.
DISCUSSION: Alternative models of pulmonary rehabilitation are required to improve both equity of access and patient-related outcomes. This trial will establish whether telerehabilitation can achieve equivalent improvement in outcomes compared to traditional centre-based pulmonary rehabilitation. If efficacious and cost-effective, the proposed telerehabilitation model is designed to be rapidly deployed into clinical practice.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical trial registered with the Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register at ( ACTRN12616000360415 ). Registered 21 March 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Organization, quality and cost of oncological home-hospitalization: A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Home-hospitalization might be a patient-centred approach facing the increasing burden of cancer on societies. This systematic review assessed how oncological home-hospitalization has been organized and to what extent its quality and costs were evaluated.
RESULTS: Twenty-four papers describing parenteral cancer drug administration to adult patients in their homes were included. Most papers concluded oncological home-hospitalization had no significant effect on patient-reported quality of life (7/8 = 88%), but large majority of patients were satisfied (12/13, 92%) and preferred home treatment (7/8, 88%). No safety risks were associated with home-hospitalization (10/10, 100%). The cost of home-hospitalization was found beneficial in five trials (5/9, 56%); others reported no financial impact (2/9, 22%) or additional costs (2/9, 22%).
CONCLUSION: Despite heterogeneity, majority of reported models for oncological home-hospitalization demonstrated that this is a safe, equivalent and acceptable alternative to ambulatory hospital care. More well-designed trials are needed to evaluate its economic impact.
Label Included: 0

Title: An economic cost analysis of an expanding, multi-state behavioural telehealth intervention.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: In this paper the economic costs associated with a growing, multi-state telepsychiatry intervention serving rural American Indian/Alaska Native populations were compared to costs of travelling to provide/receive in-person treatment.
METHODS: Telepsychiatry costs were calculated using administrative, information-technology, equipment and technology components, and were compared to travel cost models. Both a patient travel and a psychiatrist travel model were estimated utilising ArcGIS software and unit costs gathered from literature and government sources. Cost structure and sensitivity analysis was also calculated by varying modeling parameters and assumptions.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: It is estimated that per-session costs were $93.90, $183.34, and $268.23 for telemedicine, provider-travel, and patient-travel, respectively. Restricting the analysis to satellite locations with a larger number of visits reduced telemedicine per-patient encounter costs (50 or more visits: $83.52; 100 or more visits: $80.41; and 150 or more visits: $76.25). The estimated cost efficiencies of telemedicine were more evident for highly rural communities. Finally, we found that a multi-state centre was cheaper than each state operating independently.
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with previous research, this study provides additional evidence of the economic efficiency associated with telemedicine interventions for rural American Indian/Alaska Native populations. Our results suggest that there are economies of scale in providing behavioural telemedicine and that bigger, multi-state telemedicine centres have lower overall costs compared to smaller, state-level centres. Additionally, results suggest that telemedicine structures with a higher number of per-satellite patient encounters have lower costs, and telemedicine centres delivering care to highly rural populations produce greater economic benefits.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of a Technology-Facilitated Depression Care Management Adoption Model in Safety-Net Primary Care Patients with Type 2 Diabetes.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Diabetes-Depression Care-Management Adoption Trial is a translational study of safety-net primary care predominantly Hispanic/Latino patients with type 2 diabetes in collaboration with the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of an information and communication technology (ICT)-facilitated depression care management program.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness of the ICT-facilitated care (TC) delivery model was evaluated relative to a usual care (UC) and a supported care (SC) model. TC added automated low-intensity periodic depression assessment calls to patients. Patient-reported outcomes included the 12-Item Short Form Health Survey converted into quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and the 9-Item Patient Health Questionnaire-calculated depression-free days (DFDs). Costs and outcomes data were collected over a 24-month period (-6 to 0 months baseline, 0 to 18 months study intervention).
RESULTS: A sample of 1406 patients (484 in UC, 480 in SC, and 442 in TC) was enrolled in the nonrandomized trial. TC had a significant improvement in DFDs (17.3; P = 0.011) and significantly greater 12-Item Short Form Health Survey utility improvement (2.1%; P = 0.031) compared with UC. Medical costs were statistically significantly lower for TC (-$2328; P = 0.001) relative to UC but not significantly lower than for SC. TC had more than a 50% probability of being cost-effective relative to SC at willingness-to-pay thresholds of more than $50,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: An ICT-facilitated depression care (TC) delivery model improved QALYs, DFDs, and medical costs. It was cost-effective compared with SC and dominant compared with UC.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Use of Telemedicine for Penicillin Allergy Skin Testing.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Penicillin skin testing (PST) is increasingly used as a tool to evaluate penicillin allergy in patients with a reported history. The limited availability of allergists, however, may be an impeding factor.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to assess the clinical utility of telemedicine to facilitate PST.
METHODS: Penicillin-allergic inpatients receiving systemic antibiotics were prospectively identified between April and August 2017. Qualifying patients underwent PST performed by a trained allergy/immunology physician assistant (PA). On completion of PST, a telemedicine consultation, through the use of real-time interactive video conferencing (Microsoft Lync 2013, Redmond, Wash), was performed remotely by an allergist. Patients were surveyed regarding their satisfaction with the telemedicine experience.
RESULTS: Fifty patients consented to PST through a telemedicine consultation. The average total time to complete a consultation was 128 minutes (standard deviation [SD] ± 33). Of this, the average PA travel time was 46 minutes (36%) with the remaining time spent on clinical services (82 minutes, 64%). The average physician telemedicine time per patient was 5 minutes (SD ± 2). Patients rated their experience as an average of 4.5 on a scale of 1 (highly unsatisfied) to 5 (highly satisfied). Of the 46 PST-negative patients, 33 were transitioned to a β-lactam antibiotic that reduced the use of vancomycin, metronidazole, aztreonam, aminoglycosides, and clindamycin (P < .05). More than $30,000 was saved throughout the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine is an effective and novel approach to facilitate PST in the inpatient setting and carries a high degree of patient satisfaction. This method has the potential to optimize and improve access to allergy/immunology resources.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impacts on health outcomes and on resource utilisation of home-based parenteral chemotherapy administration: a systematic review protocol.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Despite the demonstrated feasibility and policies to enable more to receive chemotherapy at home, in a few countries, parenteral chemotherapy administration at home remains currently marginal. Of note, findings of different studies on health outcomes and resources utilisation vary, leading to conflicting results. This protocol outlines a systematic review that seeks to synthesise and critically appraise the current state of evidence on the comparison between home setting and hospital setting for parenteral chemotherapy administration within the same high standards of clinical care.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This protocol has been prepared following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Protocols approach. Electronic searches will be conducted on bibliographic databases selected from the earliest available data through 15 November 2017 published in French and English languages. Additional potential papers in the selected studies and grey literature will be also included in the review. The review will include all types of studies exploring patients receiving anticancer drugs for injection at home compared with patients receiving the drugs in a hospital setting, and will assess at least one of the following criteria: patients' health outcomes, patients' or caregivers' satisfaction, resource utilisation with cost savings, and incentives and/or barriers of each admission setting according to patients' and relatives' points of view. Two reviewers will independently screen studies and extract relevant data from the included studies. Methodological quality of studies will be assessed using the 'Quality Assessment Tool for Quantitative Studies' developed by the Effective Public Health Practice Project tool, in addition to the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards statement for economic studies.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: As the review is focused on the analysis of secondary data, it does not require ethics approval. The results of the study will be disseminated through articles in peer-reviewed journals and trade publications, as well as presentations at relevant conferences.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42017068164.
Label Included: 0

Title: Long-term impact of a six-month telemedical care programme on mortality, heart failure readmissions and healthcare costs in patients with chronic heart failure.
Abstract: AIMS: The TElemonitoring in the MAnagement of Heart Failure (TEMA-HF) 1 long-term follow-up study assessed whether an initial six-month telemonitoring (TM) programme compared with usual care (UC) would result in reduced all-cause mortality, heart failure admissions and healthcare costs in chronic heart failure (CHF) patients at long-term follow-up.
METHODS: Of the 160 patients included in the multi-centre, randomised controlled telemonitoring trial (TEMA-HF 1, time point t0); 142 CHF patients (65% male; age: 76 ± 10 years; EF: 36 ± 15%) were alive and entered the follow-up study (time point: t1) with a final evaluation at 79 months (time point: t2). Both TM and UC group patients received standard heart failure care during the follow-up study (time points: t1 - t2). The primary endpoint was all-cause mortality. Secondary outcomes included days lost due to heart failure readmissions and readmission/patient follow-up related healthcare costs.
RESULTS: Compared with usual care, the initial six-month TM programme had no significant effect on all-cause mortality (hazard ratio: 0.83; 95% confidence interval, 0.57 to 1.20; p = 0.32). The number of days lost due to heart failure readmissions was significantly lower in the TM group ( p = 0.04). Healthcare costs did not differ significantly between the TM (€ 9140 ± 10580) and UC group (€ 12495 ± 22433) ( p = 0.87).
DISCUSSION: An initial six-month telemonitoring programme was not associated with reduced all-cause mortality in CHF patients at long-term follow-up but resulted in a reduction in the number of days lost due to heart failure readmissions. This study is registered in the ClinicalTrials.gov registry (NCT03171038) (URL: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03171038 ).
Label Included: 0

Title: Behavioral Economics Interventions to Improve Outpatient Antibiotic Prescribing for Acute Respiratory Infections: a Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Behavioral economics interventions have been shown to effectively reduce the rates of inappropriate antibiotic prescriptions for acute respiratory infections (ARIs).
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of three behavioral economic interventions designed to reduce inappropriate antibiotic prescriptions for ARIs.
DESIGN: Thirty-year Markov model from the US societal perspective with inputs derived from the literature and CDC surveillance data.
SUBJECTS: Forty-five-year-old adults with signs and symptoms of ARI presenting to a healthcare provider.
INTERVENTIONS: (1) Provider education on guidelines for the appropriate treatment of ARIs; (2) Suggested Alternatives, which utilizes computerized clinical decision support to suggest non-antibiotic treatment choices in lieu of antibiotics; (3) Accountable Justification, which mandates free-text justification into the patient's electronic health record when antibiotics are prescribed; and (4) Peer Comparison, which sends a periodic email to prescribers about his/her rate of inappropriate antibiotic prescribing relative to clinician colleagues.
MAIN MEASURES: Discounted costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
KEY RESULTS: Each intervention has lower costs but higher QALYs compared to provider education. Total costs for each intervention were $178.21, $173.22, $172.82, and $172.52, and total QALYs were 14.68, 14.73, 14.74, and 14.74 for the control, Suggested Alternatives, Accountable Justification, and Peer Comparison groups, respectively. Results were most sensitive to the quality-of-life of the uninfected state, and the likelihood and costs for antibiotic-associated adverse events.
CONCLUSIONS: Behavioral economics interventions can be cost-effective strategies for reducing inappropriate antibiotic prescriptions by reducing healthcare resource utilization.
Label Included: 0

Title: Barriers to insurance coverage for transgender patients.
Abstract: Transgender people report discrimination in access to health care that is associated with numerous poor health outcomes, including higher prevalence of HIV infection, substance use disorders, and suicide attempts. The field of obstetrics and gynecology is uniquely positioned to meet a wide range of health care needs for transgender people, and obstetrician-gynecologists can and ought to provide gender-affirming care for these patients. Despite growing evidence that gender-affirming care is both necessary and cost-effective, transgender patients continue to face barriers to securing insurance coverage, which prevents clinicians from practicing standards of care. The purpose of this article is to delineate the major barriers transgender patients face when seeking insurance reimbursement for services routinely available to cisgender (nontransgender) women.
Label Included: 0

Title: Advancing Patient-Centered Care in Tuberculosis Management: A Mixed-Methods Appraisal of Video Directly Observed Therapy.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Directly observed therapy (DOT) remains an integral component of treatment support and adherence monitoring in tuberculosis care. In-person DOT is resource intensive and often burdensome for patients. Video DOT (vDOT) has been proposed as an alternative to increase treatment flexibility and better meet patient-specific needs.
METHODS: We conducted a pragmatic, prospective pilot implementation of vDOT at 3 TB clinics in Maryland. A mixed-methods approach was implemented to assess (1) effectiveness, (2) acceptability, and (3) cost. Medication adherence on vDOT was compared with that of in-person DOT. Interviews and surveys were conducted with patients and providers before and after implementation, with framework analysis utilized to extract salient themes. Last, a cost analysis assessed the economic impacts of vDOT implementation across heterogeneous clinic structures.
RESULTS: Medication adherence on vDOT was comparable to that of in-person DOT (94% vs 98%, P = .17), with a higher percentage of total treatment doses (inclusive of weekend/holiday self-administration) ultimately observed during the vDOT period (72% vs 66%, P = .03). Video DOT was well received by staff and patients alike, who cited increased treatment flexibility, convenience, and patient privacy. Our cost analysis estimated a savings with vDOT of $1391 per patient for a standard 6-month treatment course.
CONCLUSIONS: Video DOT is an acceptable and important option for measurement of TB treatment adherence and may allow a higher proportion of prescribed treatment doses to be observed, compared with in-person DOT. Video DOT may be cost-saving and should be considered as a component of individualized, patient-centered case management plans.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tele Talks: Nurse-Led Discussions Regarding Need and Duration of Cardiac Telemetry May Impact Alarm Fatigue, Empower Nurses, and Reduce Cost.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Variation in Downstream Relative Costs Associated With Incidental Ovarian Cysts on Ultrasound.
Abstract: PURPOSE: To explore variation in downstream relative costs associated with ovarian cysts incidentally detected on ultrasound.
METHODS: For 200 consecutive incidental ovarian cysts on ultrasound, ultrasound reports were classified in terms of presence of a radiologist recommendation for additional imaging. All downstream events (imaging, office visits, and surgery) associated with the cysts were identified from the electronic health record. Medical costs associated with these downstream events were estimated using national Medicare rates. Average cost per cyst was stratified by various factors; cost ratios were computed among subgroups.
RESULTS: Average costs per cyst were 1.9 times greater in postmenopausal than premenopausal women. Relative to when follow-up imaging was neither recommended nor obtained, costs were 1.1 times greater when follow-up imaging was recommended but not obtained, 5.1 times greater when follow-up imaging was both recommended and obtained, and 8.1 times greater when follow-up imaging was obtained despite not being recommended. Costs were 2.5 times greater when the radiologist underrecommended follow-up compared with Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound (SRU) guidelines for management of ovarian cysts, 3.0 times greater when the ordering physician overmanaged compared with the radiologist's recommendation, as well as 1.7 times and 3.8 times greater when the ordering physician undermanaged and overmanaged compared with SRU guidelines, respectively. Four ovarian neoplasms, although no ovarian malignancy, were diagnosed in the cohort.
CONCLUSION: Follow-up costs for incidental ovarian cysts are highly variable based on a range of factors. Radiologist recommendations may contribute to lower costs among patients receiving follow-up imaging. Such recommendations should reflect best practices and support the follow-up that will be of likely greatest value for patient care.
Label Included: 0

Title: A realist evaluation of value-based care delivery in home care: The influence of actors, autonomy and accountability.
Abstract: The increasing demand for home care is occurring in tandem with the need for governments to contain health care costs, maximize appropriate resource utilization and respond to patient preferences for where they receive care. We describe the evaluation of the Integrated Client Care Project (ICCP), a government funded project designed to improve value for outcomes for patients referred to community wound care services in Ontario, Canada. We applied a realist evaluation methodology in order to unpack the influences of contextual and mechanistic choices on the intended outcomes of the ICCP implementation. We collected data through ethnographic methods including 36 months of field observation, 46 key informant interviews and contemporaneous document analysis. The findings presented here highlight how theoretical mechanisms were negatively impacted by strong contextual patterns and weak implementation which led to underwhelming outcomes. Autonomy of the participant organizations, lack of power within the implementation team to drive change, opacity of the goals of the program, and disregard for the impact of complex historical relations within the home care sector compounded to undermine the intended outcome.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementation and Evaluation of a Smartphone-Based Telemonitoring Program for Patients With Heart Failure: Mixed-Methods Study Protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Meta-analyses of telemonitoring for patients with heart failure conclude that it can lower the utilization of health services and improve health outcomes compared with the standard of care. A smartphone-based telemonitoring program is being implemented as part of the standard of care at a specialty care clinic for patients with heart failure in Toronto, Canada.
OBJECTIVE: The objectives of this study are to (1) evaluate the impact of the telemonitoring program on health service utilization, patient health outcomes, and their ability to self-care; (2) identify the contextual barriers and facilitators of implementation at the physician, clinic, and institutional level; (3) describe patient usage patterns to determine adherence and other behaviors in the telemonitoring program; and (4) evaluate the costs associated with implementation of the telemonitoring program from the perspective of the health care system (ie, public payer), hospital, and patient.
METHODS: The evaluation will use a mixed-methods approach. The quantitative component will include a pragmatic pre- and posttest study design for the impact and cost analyses, which will make use of clinical data and questionnaires administered to at least 108 patients at baseline and 6 months. Furthermore, outcome data will be collected at 1, 12, and 24 months to explore the longitudinal impact of the program. In addition, quantitative data related to implementation outcomes and patient usage patterns of the telemonitoring system will be reported. The qualitative component involves an embedded single case study design to identify the contextual factors that influenced the implementation. The implementation evaluation will be completed using semistructured interviews with clinicians, and other program staff at baseline, 4 months, and 12 months after the program start date. Interviews conducted with patients will be triangulated with usage data to explain usage patterns and adherence to the system.
RESULTS: The telemonitoring program was launched in August 2016 and patient enrollment is ongoing.
CONCLUSIONS: The methods described provide an example for conducting comprehensive evaluations of telemonitoring programs. The combination of impact, implementation, and cost evaluations will inform the quality improvement of the existing program and will yield insights into the sustainability of smartphone-based telemonitoring programs for patients with heart failure within a specialty care setting.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in the Intensive Care Unit: Improved Access to Care at What Cost?
Abstract: Health systems across the United States are adopting intensive care unit telemedicine programs to improve patient outcomes. Research demonstrates the potential for decreased mortality and length of stay for patients of these remotely monitored units. Financial models and studies point to cost-effectiveness and the possibility of cost savings in the face of abundant startup costs. Questions remain as to the true financial implications of these programs and targeted populations that may see the greatest benefit. Despite recent growth, widespread adoption may be limited until these unknowns are answered.
Label Included: 0

Title: Frozen section evaluation via dynamic real-time nonrobotic telepathology system in a university cancer center by resident/faculty cooperation team.
Abstract: Frozen section telepathology interpretation experience has been largely limited to practices with locations significantly distant from one another with sporadic need for frozen section diagnosis. In 2010, we established a real-time nonrobotic telepathology system in a very active cancer center for daily frozen section service. Herein, we evaluate its accuracy compared to direct microscopic interpretation performed in the main hospital by the same faculty and its cost-efficiency over a 1-year period. From 643 (1,416 parts) cases requiring intraoperative consultation, 333 cases (690 parts) were examined by telepathology and 310 cases (726 parts) by direct microscopy. Corresponding discrepancy rates were 2.6% (18 cases: 6 [0.9%] sampling and 12 [1.7%] diagnostic errors) and 3.2% (23 cases: 8 [1.1%] sampling and 15 [2.1%] diagnostic errors), P = .63. The sensitivity and specificity of intraoperative frozen diagnosis were 0.92 and 0.99, respectively, in telepathology and 0.90 and 0.99, respectively, in direct microscopy. There was no correlation of error incidence with postgraduate year level of residents involved in the telepathology service. Cost analysis indicated that the time saved by telepathology was $19,691.00 over 1 year of the study period, whereas the capital cost for establishing the system was $8,924.00. Thus, real-time nonrobotic telepathology is a reliable and easy-to-use tool for frozen section evaluation in busy clinical settings, especially when frozen section service involves more than one hospital, and it is cost-efficient when travel is a component of the service.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telesonography in emergency medicine: A systematic review.
Abstract: Ultrasound is an efficacious, versatile and affordable imaging technique in emergencies, but has limited utility without expert interpretation. Telesonography, in which experts may remotely support the use of ultrasound through a telecommunications link, may broaden access to ultrasound and improve patient outcomes, particularly in remote settings. This review assesses the literature regarding telesonography in emergency medicine, focussing on evidence of feasibility, diagnostic accuracy and clinical utility. A systematic search was performed for articles published from 1946 to February 2017 using the Cochrane, Medline, EMBASE, and CINAHL databases. Further searches utilising Scopus, Google Scholar, and citation lists were conducted. 4388 titles were identified and screened against inclusion criteria which resulted in the inclusion of 28 papers. These included feasibility, diagnostic accuracy and clinical pilot studies. Study design, methodology and quality were heterogeneous. There was good evidence of feasibility from multiple studies. Where sufficient bandwidth and high quality components were used, diagnostic accuracy was slightly reduced by image transmission. There was evidence of clinical utility in remote hospitals and low-resource settings, although reliability was infrequently reported. Further exploratory research is required to determine minimum requirements for image quality, bandwidth, frame rate and to assess diagnostic accuracy. Clinical trials in remote settings are justifiable. Telecommunication options will depend on local requirements; no one system conveys universal advantages. The methodological quality of research in this field must improve: studies should be designed to minimise bias, and must include details of their methods to allow replication. Analysis of cost effectiveness and sustainability should be provided.
Label Included: 0

Title: Factors Determining the Success and Failure of eHealth Interventions: Systematic Review of the Literature.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: eHealth has an enormous potential to improve healthcare cost, effectiveness, and quality of care. However, there seems to be a gap between the foreseen benefits of research and clinical reality.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to systematically review the factors influencing the outcome of eHealth interventions in terms of success and failure.
METHODS: We searched the PubMed database for original peer-reviewed studies on implemented eHealth tools that reported on the factors for the success or failure, or both, of the intervention. We conducted the systematic review by following the patient, intervention, comparison, and outcome framework, with 2 of the authors independently reviewing the abstract and full text of the articles. We collected data using standardized forms that reflected the categorization model used in the qualitative analysis of the outcomes reported in the included articles.
RESULTS: Among the 903 identified articles, a total of 221 studies complied with the inclusion criteria. The studies were heterogeneous by country, type of eHealth intervention, method of implementation, and reporting perspectives. The article frequency analysis did not show a significant discrepancy between the number of reports on failure (392/844, 46.5%) and on success (452/844, 53.6%). The qualitative analysis identified 27 categories that represented the factors for success or failure of eHealth interventions. A quantitative analysis of the results revealed the category quality of healthcare (n=55) as the most mentioned as contributing to the success of eHealth interventions, and the category costs (n=42) as the most mentioned as contributing to failure. For the category with the highest unique article frequency, workflow (n=51), we conducted a full-text review. The analysis of the 23 articles that met the inclusion criteria identified 6 barriers related to workflow: workload (n=12), role definition (n=7), undermining of face-to-face communication (n=6), workflow disruption (n=6), alignment with clinical processes (n=2), and staff turnover (n=1).
CONCLUSIONS: The reviewed literature suggested that, to increase the likelihood of success of eHealth interventions, future research must ensure a positive impact in the quality of care, with particular attention given to improved diagnosis, clinical management, and patient-centered care. There is a critical need to perform in-depth studies of the workflow(s) that the intervention will support and to perceive the clinical processes involved.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Remote Collaborative Care Program for Patients with Depression Living in Rural Areas: Open-Label Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the treatment of depression, primary care teams have an essential role, but they are most effective when inserted into a collaborative care model for disease management. In rural areas, the shortage of specialized mental health resources may hamper management of depressed patients.
OBJECTIVE: The aim was to test the feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness of a remote collaborative care program for patients with depression living in rural areas.
METHODS: In a nonrandomized, open-label (blinded outcome assessor), two-arm clinical trial, physicians from 15 rural community hospitals recruited 250 patients aged 18 to 70 years with a major depressive episode (DSM-IV criteria). Patients were assigned to the remote collaborative care program (n=111) or to usual care (n=139). The remote collaborative care program used Web-based shared clinical records between rural primary care teams and a specialized/centralized mental health team, telephone monitoring of patients, and remote supervision by psychiatrists through the Web-based shared clinical records and/or telephone. Depressive symptoms, health-related quality of life, service use, and patient satisfaction were measured 3 and 6 months after baseline assessment.
RESULTS: Six-month follow-up assessments were completed by 84.4% (221/250) of patients. The remote collaborative care program achieved higher user satisfaction (odds ratio [OR] 1.94, 95% CI 1.25-3.00) and better treatment adherence rates (OR 1.81, 95% CI 1.02-3.19) at 6 months compared to usual care. There were no statically significant differences in depressive symptoms between the remote collaborative care program and usual care. Significant differences between groups in favor of remote collaborative care program were observed at 3 months for mental health-related quality of life (beta 3.11, 95% CI 0.19-6.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Higher rates of treatment adherence in the remote collaborative care program suggest that technology-assisted interventions may help rural primary care teams in the management of depressive patients. Future cost-effectiveness studies are needed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02200367; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02200367 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6xtZ7OijZ).
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparison of telemedicine with in-person care for follow-up after elective neurosurgery: results of a cost-effectiveness analysis of 1200 patients using patient-perceived utility scores.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE The utility of telemedicine (TM) in neurosurgery is underexplored, with most of the studies relating to teletrauma or telestroke programs. In this study, the authors evaluate the cost-effectiveness of TM consultations for follow-up care of a large population of patients who underwent neurosurgical procedures. METHODS A decision-analytical model was used to assess the cost-effectiveness of TM for elective post-neurosurgical care patients from a predominantly nonurban cohort in West Bengal, India. The model compared TM care via a nodal center in West Bengal to routine, in-person, per-episode care at the provider site in Bangalore, India. Cost and effectiveness data relating to 1200 patients were collected for a 52-month period. The effectiveness of TM care was calculated using efficiency in terms of the percentage of successful TM consultations, as well as patient-perceived utility values for overall experience of the type of health care access that they received. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) analysis was done using the 4-quadrant charting of the cost-effectiveness plane. One-way sensitivity and tornado analyses were performed to identify thresholds where the care strategy would change. RESULTS The overall utility for the 3 TM scenarios was found to be higher (89%) than for the utility of routine care (80%). TM was found to be more cost-effective (Indian rupee [INR] 2630 per patient) compared to routine care (INR 6848 per patient). The TM strategy "dominates" that of routine care by being more effective and less expensive (ICER value of -39,400 INR/unit of effectiveness). Sensitivity analysis revealed that cost-effectiveness of TM was most sensitive to changes in the number of TM patients, utility and success rate of TM, and travel distance to the TM center. CONCLUSIONS TM care dominates the in-person care strategy by providing more effective and less expensive follow-up care for a remote post-neurosurgical care population in India. In the authors' setting, this benefit of TM is sustainable even if half the TM consultations turn out to be unsuccessful. The viability of TM as a cost-effective care protocol is attributed to a combination of factors, like an adequate patient volume utilizing TM, patient utility, success rate of TM, and the patient travel distance.
Label Included: 1

Title: Editorial. Telemedicine for elective neurosurgical routine follow-up care: a promising patient-centered and cost-effective alternative to in-person clinic visits.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Dictionary-based monitoring of premature ventricular contractions: An ultra-low-cost point-of-care service.
Abstract: While cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are prevalent across economic strata, the economically disadvantaged population is disproportionately affected due to the high cost of traditional CVD management, involving consultations, testing and monitoring at medical facilities. Accordingly, developing an ultra-low-cost alternative, affordable even to groups at the bottom of the economic pyramid, has emerged as a societal imperative. Against this backdrop, we propose an inexpensive yet accurate home-based electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring service. Specifically, we seek to provide point-of-care monitoring of premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), high frequency of which could indicate the onset of potentially fatal arrhythmia. Note that the first-generation telecardiology system acquires the ECG, transmits it to a professional diagnostic center without processing, and nearly achieves the diagnostic accuracy of a bedside setup. In the process, such a system incurs high bandwidth cost and requires the physicians to process the entire record for diagnosis. To reduce cost, current telecardiology systems compress data before transmitting. However, the burden on physicians remains undiminished. In this context, we develop a dictionary-based algorithm that reduces not only the overall bandwidth requirement, but also the physicians workload by localizing anomalous beats. Specifically, we detect anomalous beats with high sensitivity and only those beats are then transmitted. In fact, we further compress those beats using class-specific dictionaries subject to suitable reconstruction/diagnostic fidelity. Finally, using Monte Carlo cross validation on MIT/BIH arrhythmia database, we evaluate the performance of the proposed system. In particular, with a sensitivity target of at most one undetected PVC in one hundred beats, and a percentage root mean squared difference less than 9% (a clinically acceptable level of fidelity), we achieved about 99.15% reduction in bandwidth cost, equivalent to 118-fold savings over first-generation telecardiology. In the process, the professional workload is reduced by at least 85.9% for noncritical cases. Our algorithm also outperforms known algorithms under certain measures in the telecardiological context.
Label Included: 0

Title: A systematic review of reviews to identify key research opportunities within the field of eHealth implementation.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: This paper is a systematic review of the relevant literature surrounding the implementation and utilisation of eHealth to identify key challenges and opportunities to future eHealth applications.
METHODS: NHS Evidence, PubMed, IEEE Explorer, Cochrane Library and JMIR Publications were all searched for reviews published between 1 January 2010 and 30 June 2017.
RESULTS: A total of 47 papers met the final inclusion criterion. The published literature focused on a wide array of challenges categorised into five areas, facing the implementation and utilisation of eHealth; from this, four areas of opportunity to advance eHealth were identified.
DISCUSSION: The five challenge areas are (C1) stakeholders and system users, (C2) technology and interoperability, (C3) cost-effectiveness and start-up costs, (C4) legal clarity and legal framework and (C5) local context and regional differences. The four opportunity areas are (O1) participation and contribution, (O2) foundation and sustainability, (O3) improvement and productivity and (O4) identification and application.
CONCLUSION: The literature analysed in this systematic review identifies design and implementation priorities that can guide the development and utilisation of future eHealth initiatives.
Label Included: 0

Title: Utilization and Cost Analysis of Lung Transplantation and Survival After 10 Years of Adapting the Lung Allocation Score.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Lungs are allocated in the United States using the lung allocation score (LAS). We investigated the effect of LAS trends on lung transplant-related costs, healthcare utilization, and mortality.
METHODS: Utilization data from Mayo Clinic (Florida and Minnesota) from 2005 to 2015 were obtained from the electronic health records (N = 465). Costs were categorized as 1-year posttransplant or transplant episode and standardized using 2015 Medicare reimbursement and cost-to-charge ratios. Regression analysis was used to assess the relationship of LAS to length of stay (LOS), mortality, and cost of transplant.
RESULTS: The mean LAS at transplant increased from 45.7 to 58.3 during the study period, whereas the 1-year survival improved from 88.1% to 92.5% (P < 0.0001). The proportion of patients transplanted with LAS of 60 or greater increased from 16.9% to 33.3%. Posttransplant, overall, and intensive care unit LOS increased with increasing LAS. Patients with higher LAS had substantially higher transplant episode costs. An increase of LAS at transplant by 10 points increased inflation-adjusted costs by 12.0% (95% confidence interval, 9.3%-14.5%).
CONCLUSIONS: The mean LAS at transplant has significantly increased over time associated with increases in LOS, resource utilization and cost. Lung allocation score has not jeopardized overall survival, but a high LAS (>60) at transplant is associated with increased mortality.
Label Included: 0

Title: US government considers charging for popular Earth-observing data.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Electronic Medication Administration Records in Long-Term Care Facilities: A Scoping Review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To map the extent, range, and nature of research on the effectiveness, level of use, and perceptions about electronic medication administration records (eMARs) in long-term care facilities (LTCFs) and identify gaps in current knowledge and priority areas for future research.
DESIGN: Scoping review of quantitative and qualitative literature.
SETTING: Literature review.
PARTICIPANTS: Original research relating to eMAR in LTCF was eligible for inclusion.
MEASUREMENTS: We systematically searched MEDLINE, CINAHL, Scopus, ProQuest, and the Cochrane Library and performed general and advanced searches of Google to identify grey literature. Two authors independently screened for eligibility of studies. Independent reviewers extracted data regarding country of origin, design, study methods, outcomes studied, and main results in duplicate.
RESULTS: We identified 694 articles, of which 34 met inclusion criteria. Studies were published between 2006 and 2016 and were mostly from the United States (n=25). Twenty studies (59%) used quantitative methods, including surveys and analysis of eMAR data; 7 (21%) used qualitative methods, including interviews, focus groups, document review, and observation; and 7 (21%) used mixed methods. Three major research areas were explored: medication and medication administration error rates (n=11), eMAR benefits and challenges (n=19), and eMAR prevalence and uptake (n=15). Evidence linking eMAR use and reductions in medication errors is weak because of suboptimal study design and reporting. The majority of studies were descriptive and documented inconsistent benefits and challenges and low levels of eMAR implementation.
CONCLUSION: Further investigation is required to rigorously evaluate the effect of standalone eMAR systems on medication administration errors and patient safety, the extent of eMAR implementation, pharmacists' perceptions, and cost effectiveness of eMAR systems in LTCF.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home treatment of COPD exacerbation selected by DECAF score: a non-inferiority, randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Previous models of Hospital at Home (HAH) for COPD exacerbation (ECOPD) were limited by the lack of a reliable prognostic score to guide patient selection. Approximately 50% of hospitalised patients have a low mortality risk by DECAF, thus are potentially suitable.
METHODS: In a non-inferiority randomised controlled trial, 118 patients admitted with a low-risk ECOPD (DECAF 0 or 1) were recruited to HAH or usual care (UC). The primary outcome was health and social costs at 90 days.
RESULTS: Mean 90-day costs were £1016 lower in HAH, but the one-sided 95% CI crossed the non-inferiority limit of £150 (CI -2343 to 312). Savings were primarily due to reduced hospital bed days: HAH=1 (IQR 1-7), UC=5 (IQR 2-12) (P=0.001). Length of stay during the index admission in UC was only 3 days, which was 2 days shorter than expected. Based on quality-adjusted life years, the probability of HAH being cost-effective was 90%. There was one death within 90 days in each arm, readmission rates were similar and 90% of patients preferred HAH for subsequent ECOPD.
CONCLUSION: HAH selected by low-risk DECAF score was safe, clinically effective, cost-effective, and preferred by most patients. Compared with earlier models, selection is simpler and approximately twice as many patients are eligible. The introduction of DECAF was associated with a fall in UC length of stay without adverse outcome, supporting use of DECAF to direct early discharge.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Registered prospectively ISRCTN29082260.
Label Included: 0

Title: Review of economic evaluations of teleophthalmology as a screening strategy for chronic eye disease in adults.
Abstract: BACKGROUND/AIMS: Teleophthalmology is well positioned to play a key role in screening of major chronic eye diseases. Economic evaluation of cost-effectiveness of teleophthalmology, however, is lacking. This study provides a systematic review of economic studies of teleophthalmology screening for diabetic retinopathy (DR), glaucoma and macular degeneration.
METHODS: Structured search of electronic databases and full article review yielded 20 cost-related articles. Sixteen articles fulfilled the inclusion criteria and were retained for a narrative review: 12 on DR, 2 on glaucoma and 2 on chronic eye disease.
RESULTS: Teleophthalmology for DR yielded the most cost savings when compared with traditional clinic examination. The study settings varied among urban, rural and remote settings, community, hospital and health mobile units. The most important determinant of cost-effectiveness of teleophthalmology was the prevalence of DR among patients screened, indicating an increase of cost savings with the increase of screening rates. The required patient pool size to be screened varied from 110 to 3500 patients. Other factors potentially influencing cost-effectiveness of teleophthalmology were older patient age, regular screening and full utilisation of the equipment. Teleophthalmology for glaucoma was more cost-effective compared with in-person examination. Similarly, increasing number of glaucoma patients targeted for screening yielded more cost savings.
CONCLUSIONS: This economic review provides supportive evidence of cost-effectiveness of teleophthalmology for DR and glaucoma screening potentially increasing screening accessibility especially for rural and remote populations. Special selection of the targeted screening population will optimise the cost-effectiveness of teleophthalmology.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote or on-site visits were feasible for the initial setup meetings with hospitals in a multicenter surgical trial: an embedded randomized trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate the effects, costs, and feasibility of providing on-site compared with remote meetings to set up hospital sites in a multicenter, surgical randomized controlled trial.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Hospitals were randomized to receive the initial trial setup meetings on-site (i.e., face-to-face) or remotely (i.e., via teleconference). Data were collected on site setup, recruitment, follow-up, and costs for the two methods. The hospital staff experience of trial setup was also surveyed.
RESULTS: Thirty-nine sites were randomized and 33 sites set up to recruit (19 on-site and 14 remote). For sites randomized to an on-site meeting compared with remote meeting respectively, the time from first contact to the first recruit was a median of 246 days (interquartile range [IQR] 196-346] vs. 212 days (IQR 154-266), mean recruitment was 10 participants (median 10, IQR 2-17) vs. 11 participants (median 6, IQR 5-23), and participant follow-up at 12 months was 81% vs. 82%. Sites allocated to an initial on-site visit cost on average £289.83 more to setup.
CONCLUSION: Remote or on-site visits are feasible for the initial setup meetings with hospitals in a multicenter surgical trial. This embedded trial should be replicated to improve generalizability and increase statistical power using meta-analysis. ISRCTN78899574.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility of personalised remote long-term follow-up of people with cochlear implants: a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Substantial resources are required to provide lifelong postoperative care to people with cochlear implants. Most patients visit the clinic annually. We introduced a person-centred remote follow-up pathway, giving patients telemedicine tools to use at home so they would only visit the centre when intervention was required.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the feasibility of comparing a remote care pathway with the standard pathway in adults using cochlear implants.
DESIGN: Two-arm randomised controlled trial. Randomisation used a minimisation approach, controlling for potential confounding factors. Participant blinding was not possible, but baseline measures occurred before allocation.
SETTING: University of Southampton Auditory Implant Service: provider of National Health Service care.
PARTICIPANTS: 60 adults who had used cochlear implants for at least 6 months.
INTERVENTIONS: Control group (n=30) followed usual care pathway.Remote care group (n=30) received care remotely for 6 months incorporating: home hearing in noise test, online support tool and self-adjustment of device (only 10 had compatible equipment).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary: change in patient activation; measured using the Patient Activation Measure.Secondary: change in hearing and quality of life; qualitative feedback from patients and clinicians.
RESULTS: One participant in the remote care group dropped out. The remote care group showed a greater increase in patient activation than the control group. Changes in hearing differed between the groups. The remote care group improved on the Triple Digit Test hearing test; the control group perceived their hearing was worse on the Speech, Spatial and Qualities of Hearing Scale questionnaire. Quality of life remained unchanged in both groups. Patients and clinicians were generally positive about remote care tools and wanted to continue.
CONCLUSIONS: Adults with cochlear implants were willing to be randomised and complied with the protocol. Personalised remote care for long-term follow-up is feasible and acceptable, leading to more empowered patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN14644286.
Label Included: 0

Title: Uptake of Tailored Text Message Smoking Cessation Support in Pregnancy When Advertised on the Internet (MiQuit): Observational Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Smoking in pregnancy is a major public health concern. Pregnant smokers are particularly difficult to reach, with low uptake of support options and few effective interventions. Text message-based self-help is a promising, low-cost intervention for this population, but its real-world uptake is largely unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to explore the uptake and cost-effectiveness of a tailored, theory-guided, text message intervention for pregnant smokers ("MiQuit") when advertised on the internet.
METHODS: Links to a website providing MiQuit initiation information (texting a short code) were advertised on a cost-per-click basis on 2 websites (Google Search and Facebook; £1000 budget each) and free of charge within smoking-in-pregnancy webpages on 2 noncommercial websites (National Childbirth Trust and NHS Choices). Daily budgets were capped to allow the Google and Facebook adverts to run for 1 and 3 months, respectively. We recorded the number of times adverts were shown and clicked on, the number of MiQuit initiations, the characteristics of those initiating MiQuit, and whether support was discontinued prematurely. For the commercial adverts, we calculated the cost per initiation and, using quit rates obtained from an earlier clinical trial, estimated the cost per additional quitter.
RESULTS: With equal capped budgets, there were 812 and 1889 advert clicks to the MiQuit website from Google (search-based) and Facebook (banner) adverts, respectively. MiQuit was initiated by 5.2% (42/812) of those clicking via Google (95% CI 3.9%-6.9%) and 2.22% (42/1889) of those clicking via Facebook (95% CI 1.65%-2.99%). Adverts on noncommercial webpages generated 53 clicks over 6 months, with 9 initiations (9/53, 17%; 95% CI 9%-30%). For the commercial websites combined, mean cost per initiation was £24.73; estimated cost per additional quitter, including text delivery costs, was £735.86 (95% CI £227.66-£5223.93). Those initiating MiQuit via Google were typically very early in pregnancy (median gestation 5 weeks, interquartile range 10 weeks); those initiating via Facebook were distributed more evenly across pregnancy (median gestation 16 weeks, interquartile range 14 weeks).
CONCLUSIONS: Commercial online adverts are a feasible, likely cost-effective method for engaging pregnant smokers in digital cessation support and may generate uptake at a faster rate than noncommercial websites. As a strategy for implementing MiQuit, online advertising has large reach potential and can offer support to a hard-to-reach population of smokers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of Two Mobile Health Apps in the Context of Smoking Cessation: Qualitative Study of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) Versus Non-CBT-Based Digital Solutions.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mobile health (mHealth) apps can offer users numerous benefits, representing a feasible and acceptable means of administering health interventions such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). CBT is commonly used in the treatment of mental health conditions, where it has a strong evidence base, suggesting that it represents an effective method to elicit health behavior change. More importantly, CBT has proved to be effective in smoking cessation, in the context of smoking-related costs to the National Health Service (NHS) having been estimated to be as high as £2.6bn in 2015. Although the evidence base for computerized CBT in mental health is strong, there is limited literature on its use in smoking cessation. This, combined with the cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions, advocates a need for research into the effectiveness of CBT-based smoking cessation apps.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was, first, to explore participants' perceptions of 2 mHealth apps, a CBT-based app, Quit Genius, and a non-CBT-based app, NHS Smokefree, over a variety of themes. Second, the study aimed to investigate the perceptions and health behavior of users of each app with respect to smoking cessation.
METHODS: A qualitative short-term longitudinal study was conducted, using a sample of 29 smokers allocated to one of the 2 apps, Quit Genius or Smokefree. Each user underwent 2 one-to-one semistructured interviews, 1 week apart. Thematic analysis was carried out, and important themes were identified. Descriptive statistics regarding participants' perceptions and health behavior in relation to smoking cessation are also provided.
RESULTS: The thematic analysis resulted in five higher themes and several subthemes. Participants were generally more positive about Quit Genius's features, as well as about its design and information engagement and quality. Quit Genius users reported increased motivation to quit smoking, as well as greater willingness to continue using their allocated app after 1 week. Moreover, these participants demonstrated preliminary changes in their smoking behavior, although this was in the context of our limited sample, not yet allowing for the finding to be generalizable.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings underscore the use of CBT in the context of mHealth apps as a feasible and potentially effective smoking cessation tool. mHealth apps must be well developed, preferably with an underlying behavioral change mechanism, to promote positive health behavior change. Digital CBT has the potential to become a powerful tool in overcoming current health care challenges. The present results should be replicated in a wider sample using the apps for a longer period so as to allow for generalizability. Further research is also needed to focus on the effect of greater personalization on behavioral change and on understanding the psychological barriers to the adoption of new mHealth solutions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Web-based rehabilitation interventions for people with rheumatoid arthritis: A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Rehabilitation approaches for people with rheumatoid arthritis include joint protection, exercises and self-management strategies. Health interventions delivered via the web have the potential to improve access to health services overcoming time constraints, physical limitations, and socioeconomic and geographic barriers. The objective of this review is to determine the effects of web-based rehabilitation interventions in adults with rheumatoid arthritis.
METHODS: Randomised controlled trials that compared web-based rehabilitation interventions with usual care, waiting list, no treatment or another web-based intervention in adults with rheumatoid arthritis were included. The outcomes were pain, function, quality of life, self-efficacy, rheumatoid arthritis knowledge, physical activity and adverse effects. Methodological quality was assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool and quality of evidence with the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation approach.
RESULTS: Six source documents from four trials ( n = 567) focusing on self-management, health information or physical activity were identified. The effects of web-based rehabilitation interventions on pain, function, quality of life, self-efficacy, rheumatoid arthritis knowledge and physical activity are uncertain because of the very low quality of evidence mostly from small single trials. Adverse effects were not reported.
CONCLUSION: Large, well-designed trials are needed to evaluate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of web-based rehabilitation interventions in rheumatoid arthritis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Chance of reimbursement for ADD-ON therapies in Poland and in the world - review of the reimbursement recommendations.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Oncology drugs combined with standard therapies (so-called add-on therapies, e.g. bevacizumab, palbociclib) often receive negative recommendations regarding the legitimacy of public financing, issued by government agencies responsible for their assessment, i.e. health technology assessment agencies. The aim of the study was to estimate the scale of the problem related to the reimbursement of add-on therapies used in the treatment of breast and genitourinary cancers in Poland and in the world.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A multimodal approach was used to select add-on therapies. The reimbursement routes were analysed in 8 reference countries (Poland, Canada, England, Wales, France, Scotland, Australia, New Zealand). Based on a systematic search, data for breast and urogenital cancers were included.
RESULTS: A total of 68 reimbursement documents for add-on therapies were identified. The analysis showed that in Poland, 20% of innovative schemes including add-on therapies should be reimbursed, while in the world the percentage of positive recommendations reaches 56%. It was observed that globally (including data for Poland) the chance for a favorable reimbursement recommendation for add-on therapies is 53%, with 29% being positive recommendations with limitations. In Poland, the majority of negative recommendations concern genitourinary cancers in comparison to breast cancer (83% vs 75%).
CONCLUSIONS: Poland is at the head of the countries in terms of the number of negative reimbursement recommendations. Bearing in mind the world’s need of modifying the criteria for the evaluation of oncological therapies in the context of the possibility of their reimbursement, one should expect a change in the approach to the assessment of the legitimacy of financing innovative add-on therapies in Poland.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy and Safety of Zofenopril Versus Ramipril in the Treatment of Myocardial Infarction and Heart Failure: A Review of the Published and Unpublished Data of the Randomized Double-Blind SMILE-4 Study.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: Zofenopril is a lipophilic, sulfhydryl group-containing angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitor, characterized by wide tissue distribution, long duration of action, and pleiotropic effects on endothelial dysfunction. Its clinical efficacy and safety have been described in the four randomized controlled trials of the SMILE program, which globally enrolled more than 3600 patients in post-acute myocardial infarction (AMI) setting. The SMILE-4 study specifically selected patients with left ventricular dysfunction at admission, and compared the effects of zofenopril or ramipril in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Zofenopril demonstrated its superiority over ramipril in reducing the combined occurrence of death or hospitalization for cardiovascular causes both in the overall population included in the original study and in subgroups of patients at highest risk, namely hypertensive and diabetic subjects. The effects of the early treatment with zofenopril were sustained over time, and, after 5 years of follow-up, zofenopril increased the survival likelihood and reduced the hospitalization rate. Compared to ramipril, zofenopril was cost-effective with a number to treat of 13 and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 2125.45 euros for any additional event prevented. Furthermore, in real-world settings, zofenopril decreased the risk of death in patients with heart failure, particularly in men, and in subjects older than 76 years or with ejection fraction lower than 54%. These results support the early use of zofenopril immediately after AMI, even in the presence of comorbidities, and its maintenance over time to reduce the risk of heart failure.
FUNDING: Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A.
Label Included: 0

Title: Significance of Pharmacogenomics in Precision Medicine.
Abstract: Precision medicine-a term widely used in modern medicine-emphasizes the goal to overcome still existing limitations of therapeutic interventions by tailoring medical treatments to individual patient characteristics. Pharmacogenetics was one of the first scientific approaches taking molecular biomarkers into consideration of diagnostics and therapeutic decisions. This issue of Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics on the significance of pharmacogenomics inprecision medicine discusses the ongoing challenges on different levels. Access and usage of clinical biobanks, gain of specific information of medication from electronic health records, and tools to combine clinical and molecular information in order to develop advanced clinical decision support are subjects of numerous research initiatives. Implementation in clinical routine, however, remains the subject of evaluation of clinical- and cost-effectiveness, so far.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of cardiac rehabilitation: a systematic review.
Abstract: Patients may be offered cardiac rehabilitation (CR), a supervised programme often including exercises, education and psychological care, following a cardiac event, with the aim of reducing morbidity and mortality. Cost-constrained healthcare systems require information about the best use of budget and resources to maximise patient benefit. We aimed to systematically review and critically appraise economic studies of CR and its components. In January 2016, validated electronic searches of the National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED), Health Technology Assessment, PsycINFO, MEDLINE and Embase databases were run to identify full economic evaluations published since 2001. Two levels of screening were used and explicit inclusion criteria were applied. Prespecified data extraction and critical appraisal were performed using the NHS EED handbook and Drummond checklist. The majority of studies concluded that CR was cost-effective versus no CR (incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) ranged from $1065 to $71 755 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY)). Evidence for specific interventions within CR was varied; psychological intervention ranged from dominant (cost saving and more effective) to $226 128 per QALY, telehealth ranged from dominant to $588 734 per QALY and while exercise was cost-effective across all relevant studies, results were subject to uncertainty. Key drivers of cost-effectiveness were risk of subsequent events and hospitalisation, hospitalisation and intervention costs, and utilities. This systematic review of studies evaluates the cost-effectiveness of CR in the modern era, providing a fresh evidence base for policy-makers. Evidence suggests that CR is cost-effective, especially with exercise as a component. However, research is needed to determine the most cost-effective design of CR.
Label Included: 0

Title: Value-Based ST-Segment-Elevation Myocardial Infarction Care Using Risk-Guided Triage and Early Discharge.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Prior studies suggest that low-risk ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention can be considered for early discharge. We describe the implementation of an STEMI risk score to decrease cost while maintaining optimal patient outcomes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We determined the impact of risk-guided STEMI care on healthcare value through the retrospective application of the Zwolle Risk Score to 967 patients receiving primary percutaneous coronary intervention between 2009 and 2011. Of these patients, 540 (56%) were categorized as low risk, indicating they may be safely triaged directly to a telemetry unit rather than the intensive care unit and targeted for early discharge. We subsequently developed and implemented a modified Zwolle Risk Calculator into the electronic medical record to support application of the fast-track protocol for low-risk STEMI patients. Among 549 prospective patients with STEMI, 62% were low risk, and the fast-track protocol was followed in 75% of cases. Prospective results confirmed lower rates of complications (low risk 8.3% versus high risk 38.7%; P<0.001) and in-hospital mortality (low risk 0.4% versus High risk 12.5%; P<0.001) in the low-risk cohort. Low-risk patients had a shorter median length of stay (median and [25th, 75th percentiles]: low risk 2 [2, 3] versus high risk: 3 [2, 6]; P<0.001) and lower overall costs (low risk $6720 [$5280-$9030] versus high risk $11 783 [$7953-$25 359]; P<0.001). Low-risk patients treated on-protocol had shorter median length of stay (on-protocol 2 [1, 2] versus off-protocol 2 [2, 3]; P<0.001) and hospital costs (on-protocol $6090 [$4730, $7356] versus off-protocol $11 783 [$7953, $25 359]; P<0.001) than those treated off-protocol. On-protocol low-risk patients in the prospective cohort also had lower costs and shorter length of stay than low-risk patients in the retrospective cohort (P<0.001 for both).
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, risk-guided triage and discharge after primary percutaneous coronary intervention for STEMI improved healthcare value by reducing costs of care without compromising quality of care or patient outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine Application to Progressive Care Units: A New Role for Telemedicine.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedical monitoring of patients with chronic heart failure has a positive effect on total health costs.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedical programs for patients with chronic heart failure have shown inconsistent effects on survival and hospitalization. Few studies analyzed effects of telemedical interventions on health costs, although this outcome may determine whether or not a successful program will be adopted by health insurance providers. We evaluated a large sized telemedicine program provided by a German statutory health insurance, consisting of regular telephone contacts and, for a subgroup of the participants, provision of an electronic scale in a routine care setting. We examined the effects of the program on the total healthcare costs after one year compared to a matched control group.
METHODS: The evaluation was based on reimbursement data of the statutory health insurance. Participants of the program were matched to appropriate controls using a combination of exact (e.g. 5-year age group, gender, NYHA class) and propensity score (e.g. medication, psychiatric comorbidity) matching. The total health costs after one year were calculated on the basis of regression analyses in an intention-to-treat-approach. In a sensitivity analysis, the subgroup of patients with a documented beginning of the intervention was examined.
RESULTS: Two thousand six hundred twenty two patients with chronic heart failure (55% male, mean age: 73.7 years) were included in the intervention program. 1943 participants (74%) could be matched with appropriate control patients. The telemedicine monitoring program for patients with chronic heart failure reduced total health costs after 12 months of the intervention: - 276€ per quarter year in rural regions and - 18€ in urban regions compared to the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: The telemedicine program could reduce total health costs, especially in rural regions in Germany.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote Patient Management for Home Dialysis Patients.
Abstract: Remote patient management (RPM) offers renal health care providers and patients with end-stage kidney disease opportunities to embrace home dialysis therapies with greater confidence and the potential to obtain better clinical outcomes. Barriers and evidence required to increase adoption of RPM by the nephrology community need to be clearly defined. Ten health care providers from specialties including nephrology, cardiology, pediatrics, epidemiology, nursing, and health informatics with experience in home dialysis and the use of RPM systems gathered in Vienna, Austria to discuss opportunities for, barriers to, and system requirements of RPM as it applies to the home dialysis patient. Although improved outcomes and cost-effectiveness of RPM have been demonstrated in patients with diabetes mellitus and heart disease, only observational data on RPM have been gathered in patients on dialysis. The current review focused on RPM systems currently in use, on how RPM should be integrated into future care, and on the evidence needed for optimized implementation to improve clinical and economic outcomes. Randomized controlled trials and/or large observational studies could inform the most effective and economical use of RPM in home dialysis. These studies are needed to establish the value of existing and/or future RPM models among patients, policy makers, and health care providers.
Label Included: 0

Title: A randomised controlled trial of a facilitated home-based rehabilitation intervention in patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and their caregivers: the REACH-HFpEF Pilot Study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Home-based cardiac rehabilitation may overcome suboptimal rates of participation. The overarching aim of this study was to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the novel Rehabilitation EnAblement in CHronic Hear Failure (REACH-HF) rehabilitation intervention for patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) and their caregivers.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients were randomised 1:1 to REACH-HF intervention plus usual care (intervention group) or usual care alone (control group). REACH-HF is a home-based comprehensive self-management rehabilitation programme that comprises patient and carer manuals with supplementary tools, delivered by trained healthcare facilitators over a 12 week period. Patient outcomes were collected by blinded assessors at baseline, 3 months and 6 months postrandomisation and included health-related quality of life (primary) and psychological well-being, exercise capacity, physical activity and HF-related hospitalisation (secondary). Outcomes were also collected in caregivers.We enrolled 50 symptomatic patients with HF from Tayside, Scotland with a left ventricular ejection fraction ≥45% (mean age 73.9 years, 54% female, 100% white British) and 21 caregivers. Study retention (90%) and intervention uptake (92%) were excellent. At 6 months, data from 45 patients showed a potential direction of effect in favour of the intervention group, including the primary outcome of Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire total score (between-group mean difference -11.5, 95% CI -22.8 to 0.3). A total of 11 (4 intervention, 7 control) patients experienced a hospital admission over the 6 months of follow-up with 4 (control patients) of these admissions being HF-related. Improvements were seen in a number intervention caregivers' mental health and burden compared with control.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support the feasibility and rationale for delivering the REACH-HF facilitated home-based rehabilitation intervention for patients with HFpEF and their caregivers and progression to a full multicentre randomised clinical trial to test its clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN78539530.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of remote telemedicine screening for retinopathy of prematurity.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare costs of 2 screening modalities for retinopathy of prematurity (ROP): telemedicine imaging with remote interpretation versus in-person binocular indirect ophthalmoscopy (BIO).
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
PARTICIPANTS: Infants from an existing telemedicine screening program at 2 cities in Ontario, Canada.
METHODS: We conducted a cost analysis comparison from the perspective of the Ministry of Health. Patient level data was used for the telemedicine group. A hypothetical control group consisted of the minimum number of BIO and interhospital transfers if the existing patients were screened in person. Costs included in-person examinations, transfers, setting up, and ongoing costs of telemedicine screening. Costs were compared using the Mann-Whitney U test and are reported in 2014 Canadian dollars.
RESULTS: A total of 102 and 72 infants were screened from Sudbury and Barrie, respectively; 3% and 2% of infants in the telemedicine group were transferred for BIO from Sudbury and Barrie, respectively. All infants in the control group would have required at least one transfer for BIO. The average total cost per eye examination was $4855 ± $5616 and $4540 ± $3129 for the telemedicine group and $19 834 ± $13 814 and $2429 ± $1664 for the control group from Sudbury and Barrie, respectively (p < 0.001). Interhospital transfer cost for the control group was $19 489 ± $13 605 and $2055 ± $1471 compared to $635 ± $3968 and $30 ± $197 for the telemedicine group (p < 0.001) in Sudbury and Barrie, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine appears to be an economically attractive option depending on the location and number of infants screened. This information is useful for planning similar ROP screening programs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Assessing the impact of a home-based stroke rehabilitation programme: a cost-effectiveness study.
Abstract: Background: Stroke is often a severe and debilitating event that requires ongoing rehabilitation. The Community Stroke Rehabilitation Teams (CSRTs) offer home-based stroke rehabilitation to individuals for whom further therapy is unavailable or inaccessible. The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the CSRT programme compared with a "Usual Care" cohort. Methods: We collected data on CSRT clients from January 2012 to February 2013. Comparator data were derived from a study of stroke survivors with limited access to specialised stroke rehabilitation. Literature-derived values were used to inform a long-term projection. Using Markov modelling, we projected the model for 35 years in six-month cycles. One-way, two-way, and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed. Results were discounted at 3% per year. Results: Results demonstrated that the CSRT programme has a net monetary benefit (NMB) of $43,655 over Usual Care, and is both less costly and more effective (incremental cost = -$17,255; incremental effect = 1.65 Quality Adjusted Life Years [QALYs]). Results of the probabilistic sensitivity analysis revealed that incremental cost-effectiveness of the CSRT programme is superior in 100% of iterations when compared to Usual Care. Conclusions: The study shows that CSRT model of care is cost-effective, and should be considered when evaluating potential stroke rehabilitation delivery methods. Implications for Rehabilitation Ongoing rehabilitation following stroke is imperative for optimal recovery. Home-based specialised stroke rehabilitation may be an option for individuals for whom ongoing rehabilitation is unavailable or inaccessible. The results of this study demonstrated that home-based rehabilitation is a cost-effective means of providing ongoing rehabilitation to individuals who have experienced a stroke.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Analysis of a Digital Health Care Model in Sweden.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Digital technologies in health care are expected to increase in scope and to affect ever more parts of the health care system. It is important to enhance the knowledge of whether new digital methods and innovations provide value for money compared with traditional models of care.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to evaluate whether a digital health care model for primary care is a less costly alternative compared with traditional in-office primary care in Sweden.
METHODS: Cost data for the two care models were collected and analyzed to obtain a measure in local currency per care contact.
RESULTS: The comparison showed that the total economic cost of a digital consultation is 1960 Swedish krona (SEK) (SEK100 = US$11.29; February 2017) compared with SEK3348 for a traditional consultation at a health care clinic. Cost differences arose on both the provider side and on the user side.
CONCLUSION: The digital health care model may be a less costly alternative to the traditional health care model. Depending on the rate of digital substitution, gross economic cost savings of between SEK1 billion and SEK10 billion per year could be realized if more digital consultations were made. Further studies are needed to validate the findings, assess the types of care most suitable for digital care, and also to obtain various quality-adjusted outcome measures.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-utility analysis on telemonitoring of users with pacemakers: The PONIENTE study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Few studies have confirmed the cost-saving of telemonitoring of users with pacemakers (PMs). The purpose of this controlled, non-randomised, non-masked clinical trial was to perform an economic assessment of telemonitoring (TM) of users with PMs and check whether TM offers a cost-utility alternative to conventional follow-up in hospital.
METHODS: Eighty-two patients implanted with an internet-based transmission PM were selected to receive either conventional follow-up in hospital ( n = 52) or TM ( n = 30) from their homes. The data were collected during 12 months while patients were being monitored. The economic assessment of the PONIENTE study was performed as per the perspectives of National Health Service (NHS) and patients. A cost-utility analysis was conducted to measure whether the TM of patients with PMs is cost-effective in terms of costs per gained quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: There was a significant cost-saving for participants in the TM group in comparison with the participants in the conventional follow-up group. From the NHS's perspective, the patients in the TM group gained 0.09 QALYs more than the patients in the conventional follow-up group over 12 months, with a cost saving of 57.64% (€46.51 versus €109.79, respectively; p < 0.001) per participant per year. In-office visits were reduced by 52.49% in the TM group. The costs related to the patient perspective were lower in the TM group than in the conventional follow-up group (€31.82 versus €73.48, respectively; p < 0.005). The costs per QALY were 61.68% higher in the in-office monitoring group.
DISCUSSION: The cost-utility analysis performed in the PONIENTE study showed that the TM of users with PMs appears to be a significant cost-effective alternative to conventional follow-up in hospital.
Label Included: 0

Title: Web Support for Weight-Loss Interventions: PREDIRCAM2 Clinical Trial Baseline Characteristics and Preliminary Results.
Abstract: An ongoing clinical trial is testing the efficacy of web telematic support in a structured program for obesity treatment and diabetes prevention. Participants were recruited from two tertiary-care hospitals and randomized to receive either a telematic intervention (TI) supported by PREDIRCAM2 web platform or a non-telematic intervention (NTI). All receive 1-year follow-up. Both interventions consist of tailored dietary and exercise prescriptions, based on a Mediterranean dietary pattern and general WHO exercise recommendations for adults. At 6 months, both groups have received 7 contacts, 3 exclusively telematic for the TI group. This is a preliminary result intention-to-treat analysis. One hundred eighty-three participants were recruited, with a mean body mass index of 34.75 ± 2.75 kg/m2. General dropout rate at 6 months was 26.8%. Weight changes were statistically significant at months 3 and 6 compared to baseline, -2.915 ± 0.24 kg, -3.29 ± 0.36 kg, respectively (P < 0.001), but not statistically significant between the 3- and 6-month time points -0.37 ± 0.21 kg (P = 0.24). Mean group differences showed that the TI group lost 1.61 ± 1.88 kg more than the NTI group (P = 0.39). Waist, waist/hip ratio, resting heart rate, blood pressure, HbA1c, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol also showed statistically significant changes at 6 months, with no significant differences between groups. Weight loss in the TI group shows similar results as the usual care NTI group for weight loss and control of obesity comorbidities. At completion of the clinical trial, these results will be reevaluated to assess the potential role of web support in weight-loss maintenance and its cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development of Hospital-based Data Sets as a Vehicle for Implementation of a National Electronic Health Record.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In developing countries such as Iran, international standards offer good sources to survey and use for appropriate planning in the domain of electronic health records (EHRs). Therefore, in this study, HL7 and ASTM standards were considered as the main sources from which to extract EHR data.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to propose a hospital data set for a national EHR consisting of data classes and data elements by adjusting data sets extracted from the standards and paper-based records.
METHOD: This comparative study was carried out in 2017 by studying the contents of the paper-based records approved by the health ministry in Iran and the international ASTM and HL7 standards in order to extract a minimum hospital data set for a national EHR.
RESULTS: As a result of studying the standards and paper-based records, a total of 526 data elements in 174 classes were extracted. An examination of the data indicated that the highest number of extracted data came from the free text elements, both in the paper-based records and in the standards related to the administrative data. The major sources of data extracted from ASTM and HL7 were the E1384 and Hl7V.x standards, respectively. In the paper-based records, data were extracted from 19 forms sporadically.
DISCUSSION: By declaring the confidentiality of information, the ASTM standards acknowledge the issue of confidentiality of information as one of the main challenges of EHR development, and propose new types of admission, such as teleconference, tele-video, and home visit, which are inevitable with the advent of new technology for providing healthcare and treating diseases. Data related to finance and insurance, which were scattered in different categories by three organizations, emerged as the financial category. Documenting the role and responsibility of the provider by adding the authenticator/signature data element was deemed essential.
CONCLUSION: Not only using well-defined and standardized data, but also adapting EHR systems to the local facilities and the existing social and cultural conditions, will facilitate the development of structured data sets.
Label Included: 0

Title: Physician Time Burden Associated with Querying Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) enable prescribers to review patient prescription histories, and their use is mandatory in many states. We estimated the cost of physicians retrieving PDMP patient reports compared with a model where a delegate (i.e., administrative staff) retrieves reports.
METHODS: We performed a cost analysis with a one-year time horizon, from the perspective of physicians' employers. We obtained specialty-specific estimates of controlled substance prescribing frequency from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey, 2012-2014. We defined three PDMP usage cases based on the frequency of queries: comprehensive (before every Schedule II-IV controlled substance prescription), selective (before new Schedule II-IV prescriptions and every six months for continuing medications), and minimal (before new Schedule II or III prescriptions and annually for continuing medications).
RESULTS: The delegate model was less costly for all specialties in the comprehensive usage case and most specialties in the selective usage case, and it was similar to physician model costs in the minimal usage case. Estimated annual costs of the physician model to a large health care system (1,000 full-time equivalent physicians) were $1.6 million for comprehensive usage, $1.1 million for selective usage, and $645,313 for minimal usage. The delegate model was less costly in the comprehensive (savings of $907,283) and selective usage cases (savings of $156,216).
CONCLUSIONS: Relying on delegates vs physicians to retrieve reports is less costly in most cases. Automation and integration of PDMP data into electronic health records may reduce costs further. Physicians, health care systems, and states should collaborate to streamline access to PDMPs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home interventions and light therapy for the treatment of vitiligo (HI-Light Vitiligo Trial): study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Vitiligo is a condition resulting in white patches on the skin. People with vitiligo can suffer from low self-esteem, psychological disturbance and diminished quality of life. Vitiligo is often poorly managed, partly due to lack of high-quality evidence to inform clinical care. We describe here a large, independent, randomised controlled trial (RCT) assessing the comparative effectiveness of potent topical corticosteroid, home-based hand-held narrowband ultraviolet B-light (NB-UVB) or combination of the two, for the management of vitiligo.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The HI-Light Vitiligo Trial is a multicentre, three-arm, parallel group, pragmatic, placebo-controlled RCT. 516 adults and children with actively spreading, but limited, vitiligo are randomised (1:1:1) to one of three groups: mometasone furoate 0.1% ointment plus dummy NB-UVB light, vehicle ointment plus NB-UVB light or mometasone furoate 0.1% ointment plus NB-UVB light. Treatment of up to three patches of vitiligo is continued for up to 9 months with clinic visits at baseline, 3, 6 and 9 months and four post-treatment questionnaires.The HI-Light Vitiligo Trial assesses outcomes included in the vitiligo core outcome set and places emphasis on participants' views of treatment success. The primary outcome is proportion of participants achieving treatment success (patient-rated Vitiligo Noticeability Scale) for a target patch of vitiligo at 9 months with further independent blinded assessment using digital images of the target lesion before and after treatment. Secondary outcomes include time to onset of treatment response, treatment success by body region, percentage repigmentation, quality of life, time-burden of treatment, maintenance of response, safety and within-trial cost-effectiveness.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Approvals were granted by East Midlands-Derby Research Ethics Committee (14/EM/1173) and the MHRA (EudraCT 2014-003473-42). The trial was registered 8 January 2015 ISRCTN (17160087). Results will be published in full as open access in the NIHR Journal library and elsewhere.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN17160087.
Label Included: 0

Title: Differences in rates of switchbacks after switching from branded to authorized generic and branded to generic drug products: cohort study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To compare rates of switchbacks to branded drug products for patients switched from branded to authorized generic drug products, which have the same active ingredients, appearance, and excipients as the branded product, with patients switched from branded to generic drug products, which have the same active ingredients as the branded product but may differ in appearance and excipients.
DESIGN: Observational cohort study.
SETTING: Private (a large commercial health plan) and public (Medicaid) insurance programs in the US.
PARTICIPANTS: Beneficiaries of a large US commercial health insurer between 2004 and 2013 (primary cohort) and Medicaid beneficiaries between 2000 and 2010 (replication cohort).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Patients taking branded products for one of the study drugs (alendronate tablets, amlodipine tablets, amlodipine-benazepril capsules, calcitonin salmon nasal spray, escitalopram tablets, glipizide extended release tablets, quinapril tablets, and sertraline tablets) were identified when they switched to an authorized generic or a generic drug product after the date of market entry of generic drug products. These patients were followed for switchbacks to the branded drug product in the year after their switch to an authorized generic or a generic drug product. Cox proportional hazard models were used to estimate hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals after adjusting for demographics, including age, sex, and calendar year. Inverse variance meta-analysis was used to pool adjusted hazard ratios across all drug products.
RESULTS: A total of 94 909 patients switched from branded to authorized generic drug products and 116 017 patients switched from branded to generic drug products and contributed to the switchback analysis. Unadjusted incidence rates of switchback varied across drug products, ranging from a low of 3.8 per 100 person years (for alendronate tablets) to a high of 17.8 per 100 person years (for amlodipine-benazepril capsules), with an overall rate of 8.2 per 100 person years across all drug products. Adjusted switchback rates were consistently lower for patients who switched from branded to authorized generic drug products compared with branded to generic drug products in the primary cohort (pooled hazard ratio 0.72, 95% confidence interval 0.64 to 0.81). Similar results (0.75, 0.62 to 0.91) were observed in the replication cohort.
CONCLUSION: Switching from branded to authorized generic drug products was associated with lower switchback rates compared with switching from branded to generic drug products.
Label Included: 0

Title: Interdisciplinary Home Visits for Individuals with Advanced Parkinson's Disease and Related Disorders.
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex, multisymptom, neurodegenerative disease affecting primarily older adults. With progression, many individuals become homebound and removed from coordinated, expert care, resulting in excess morbidity, mortality, and healthcare expenditures in acute care settings and institutions. Home visit care models have achieved the triple aim of improving individual and population health while reducing costs in many frail, community-dwelling geriatric cohorts. This study details a novel, interdisciplinary home visit program specifically designed for individuals with PD and related disorders and their family caregivers built upon best practice principles in the care of multimorbid older adults. At each quarterly home visit, a movement disorders-trained neurologist, social worker, and nurse work in parallel with the individual and caregiver to complete a history, physical, detailed medication reconciliation, psychosocial needs assessment, and home safety assessment. A comprehensive, person-centered plan is agreed upon, referrals to community resources are made, standardized documentation is shared, and follow-up communication is instituted. In the first 2 years, 272 visits were conducted with 85 individuals who represent one of the oldest, most disabled PD populations reported. Satisfaction with and retention in the program were high. This study represents the first translation of the success of interdisciplinary and home-based geriatric care models to a population with a specific neurological disease. Preliminary evidence supports the need for such programs in vulnerable populations. Future studies will prospectively assess person-centered outcomes, the effect of using telemedicine on sustainability, and cost effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Technologies for Managing Heart Failure: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) conducted among heart failure (HF) patients have reported that mobile technologies can improve HF-related outcomes. Our aim was to conduct a meta-analysis to evaluate m-Health's impact on healthcare services utilization, mortality, and cost.
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, Cochrane, CINAHL, and EMBASE for studies published between 1966 and May-2017. We included studies that compared the use of m-Health in HF patients to usual care. m-Health is defined as the use of mobile computing and communication technologies to record and transmit data. The outcomes were HF-related and all-cause hospital days, cost, admissions, and mortality.
RESULTS: Our search strategy resulted in 1,494 articles. We included 10 RCTs and 1 quasi-experimental study, which represented 3,109 patients in North America and Europe. Patient average age range was 53-80 years, New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III, and Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction <50%. Patients were mostly monitored daily and followed for an average of 6 months. A reduction was seen in HF-related hospital days. Nonsignificant reductions were seen in HF-related cost, admissions, and mortality and total mortality. We found no significant differences for all-cause hospital days and admissions, and an increase in total cost.
CONCLUSIONS: m-Health reduced HF-related hospital days, showed reduction trends in total mortality and HF-related admissions, mortality and cost, and increased total costs related to more clinic visits and implementation of new technologies. More studies reporting consistent quality outcomes are warranted to give conclusive information about the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of m-Health interventions for HF.
Label Included: 0

Title: An ultra-low-cost smartphone octochannel spectrometer for mobile health diagnostics.
Abstract: With the rapid development and proliferation of mobile devices with powerful computing power and the ability of integrating sensors into mobile devices, the potential impact of mobile health (mHealth) diagnostics on the public health is drawing researchers' attention. We developed a Smartphone Octo-channel Spectrometer (SOS) as a mHealth diagnostic tool. The SOS has nanoscale wavelength resolution, is self-illuminated from the smartphone itself, and is ultra-low cost (less than $20). A user interface controls the optical sensing parameters and precise alignment. After calibrating and testing the SOS by quantifying protein concentrations, we clinically validated the SOS by comparing the diagnostic performance of our device with that of a clinical spectrophotometer. About 180 serum samples from de-identified patients with 4 types of autoantibodies were blindly read the ELISA results. The accuracy of the SOS achieved 100% across the clinical reportable range compared with the FDA-approved instrument. Furthermore, the self-illuminated SOS only requires about half of the light intensity of the FDA-approved instrument to achieve clinical-level sensitivity. The low-energy-consumption and low-cost SOS enables point-of-care spectrophotometric sensing in low-resource areas, and can be integrated into point-of-care diagnostic systems for rapid multiplex readout and analysis at patient bedside or at home.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating the use of parental reports to estimate health care resource utilization in children with suspected genetic disorders.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: A key step in evaluating the cost-effectiveness of diagnostic genome-wide sequencing (GWS) services is to measure the cost of prior and subsequent diagnosis-related health care resource utilization by patients. The majority of patients using diagnostic GWS services are children, and parental surveys are often used to complement utilization data abstracted from medical records. The objective of this study was to evaluate the validity of parental reports for children with very high levels of resource utilization.
METHOD: Primary caregivers of children enrolled in the CAUSES Research Clinic, a diagnostic GWS programme at B.C. Children's Hospital, completed an online survey. Parent-reported health care encounters for the 6-month period prior to survey completion were compared to utilization data abstracted from electronic medical records (EMR). The association between demographic characteristics and the probability of survey completion was tested using logistic regression. Agreement between parent-reported and EMR data was evaluated using Cohen's kappa, prevalence- and bias-adjusted kappa (PABAK), and the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC).
RESULTS: There were no major differences in demographic characteristics or resource utilization levels between families that completed the survey and those who did not. Agreement between parental reports and EMR data was high for hospitalizations (κ = 0.71; PABAK = 0.89; ICC = 0.77) but lower for outpatient physician visits (κ = 0.21; PABAK = 0.48; ICC = 0.27).
CONCLUSIONS: Parental surveys are a valuable tool for estimating health care resource utilization during a 6-month recall period for children with suspected genetic disorders but are best used to complement utilization data collected from other sources.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Family Planning Services Offered by Mobile Clinics versus Static Clinics in Assiut, Egypt.
Abstract: Cost effectiveness studies of family planning (FP) services are very valuable in providing evidence-based data for decision makers in Egypt. Cost data came from record reviews for all 15 mobile clinics and a matched set of 15 static clinics and interviews with staff members of the selected clinics at Assiut Governorate. Effectiveness measures included couple years of protection (CYPs) and FP visits. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) and sensitivity analyses were calculated. Mobile clinics cost more per facility, produced more CYPs but had fewer FP visits. Sensitivity analysis was done using: total costs, CYP and FP visits of mobile and static clinics and showed that variations in CYP of mobile and static clinics altered the ICER for CYP from $2 -$6. Mobile clinics with their high emphasis on IUDs offer a reasonable cost effectiveness of $4.46 per additional CYP compared to static clinics. The ability of mobile clinics to reach more vulnerable women and to offer more long acting methods might affect a policy decision between these options. Static clinics should consider whether emphasizing IUDs may make their services more cost-effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: Rationale and design of a randomized controlled trial of home-based primary care versus usual care for high-risk homebound older adults.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Prenatal Remote Monitoring of Women With Gestational Hypertensive Diseases: Cost Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Remote monitoring in obstetrics is relatively new; some studies have shown its effectiveness for both mother and child. However, few studies have evaluated the economic impact compared to conventional care, and no cost analysis of a remote monitoring prenatal follow-up program for women diagnosed with gestational hypertensive diseases (GHD) has been published.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the costs of remote monitoring versus conventional care relative to reported benefits.
METHODS: Patient data from the Pregnancy Remote Monitoring (PREMOM) study were used. Health care costs were calculated from patient-specific hospital bills of Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg (Genk, Belgium) in 2015. Cost comparison was made from three perspectives: the Belgian national health care system (HCS), the National Institution for Insurance of Disease and Disability (RIZIV), and costs for individual patients. The calculations were made for four major domains: prenatal follow-up, prenatal admission to the hospital, maternal and neonatal care at and after delivery, and total amount of costs. A simulation exercise was made in which it was calculated how much could be demanded of RIZIV for funding the remote monitoring service.
RESULTS: A total of 140 pregnancies were included, of which 43 received remote monitoring (30.7%) and 97 received conventional care (69.2%). From the three perspectives, there were no differences in costs for prenatal follow-up. Compared to conventional care, remote monitoring patients had 34.51% less HCS and 41.72% less RIZIV costs for laboratory test results (HCS: mean €0.00 [SD €55.34] vs mean €38.28 [SD € 44.08], P<.001; RIZIV: mean €21.09 [SD €27.94] vs mean €36.19 [SD €41.36], P<.001) and a reduction of 47.16% in HCS and 48.19% in RIZIV costs for neonatal care (HCS: mean €989.66 [SD €3020.22] vs mean €1872.92 [SD €5058.31], P<.001; RIZIV: mean €872.97 [SD €2761.64] vs mean €1684.86 [SD €4702.20], P<.001). HCS costs for medication were 1.92% lower in remote monitoring than conventional care (mean €209.22 [SD €213.32] vs mean €231.32 [SD 67.09], P=.02), but were 0.69% higher for RIZIV (mean €122.60 [SD €92.02] vs mean €121.78 [SD €20.77], P<.001). Overall HCS costs for remote monitoring were mean €4233.31 (SD €3463.31) per person and mean €4973.69 (SD €5219.00) per person for conventional care (P=.82), a reduction of €740.38 (14.89%) per person, with savings mainly for RIZIV of €848.97 per person (23.18%; mean €2797.42 [SD €2905.18] vs mean €3646.39 [SD €4878.47], P=.19). When an additional fee of €525.07 per month per pregnant woman for funding remote monitoring costs is demanded, remote monitoring is acceptable in their costs for HCS, RIZIV, and individual patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In the current organization of Belgian health care, a remote monitoring prenatal follow-up of women with GHD is cost saving for the global health care system, mainly via savings for the insurance institution RIZIV.
Label Included: 0

Title: Analytical validation of an ultra low-cost mobile phone microplate reader for infectious disease testing.
Abstract: Most mobile health (mHealth) diagnostic devices for laboratory tests only analyze one sample at a time, which is not suitable for large volume serology testing, especially in low-resource settings with shortage of health professionals. In this study, we developed an ultra-low-cost clinically-accurate mobile phone microplate reader (mReader), and clinically validated this optical device for 12 infectious disease tests. The mReader optically reads 96 samples on a microplate at one time. 771 de-identified patient samples were tested for 12 serology assays for bacterial/viral infections. The mReader and the clinical instrument blindly read and analyzed all tests in parallel. The analytical accuracy and the diagnostic performance of the mReader were evaluated across the clinical reportable categories by comparison with clinical laboratorial testing results. The mReader exhibited 97.59-99.90% analytical accuracy and <5% coefficient of variation (CV). The positive percent agreement (PPA) in all 12 tests achieved 100%, negative percent agreement (NPA) was higher than 83% except for one test (42.86%), and overall percent agreement (OPA) ranged 89.33-100%. We envision the mReader can benefit underserved areas/populations and low-resource settings in rural clinics/hospitals at a low cost (~$50 USD) with clinical-level analytical quality. It has the potential to improve health access, speed up healthcare delivery, and reduce health disparities and education disparities by providing access to a low-cost spectrophotometer.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote Mentoring of Point-of-Care Ultrasound Skills to Inexperienced Operators Using Multiple Telemedicine Platforms: Is a Cell Phone Good Enough?
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Telemedicine technology contributes to the teaching of point-of-care ultrasound (US); however, expensive equipment can limit its deployment in resource-challenged settings. We assessed 3 low-cost telemedicine solutions capable of supporting remote US training to determine feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness. We also explored the value of instructional videos immediately before telementoring.
METHODS: Thirty-six participants were randomly assigned to receive US mentoring in 1 of 3 telemedicine conditions: multiple fixed cameras, a smartphone, and traditional audio with a live US stream. Participants were then asked to perform a standardized US examination of the right upper quadrant under remote guidance. We measured observer's global ratings of performance along with the mentor's and student's rating of effort and satisfaction to determine which of the 3 approaches was most feasible, acceptable, and effective. During the second phase, students were randomized to watch an instructional video or not before receiving remote coaching on how to complete a subxiphoid cardiac examination. Effort, satisfaction, and performance from the independent observer's and student's perspective were surveyed.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the different telemedicine setups from the observer's perspective; however, the mentor rated the smartphone significantly worse (P = .028-.04) than other technologies. Platforms were rated equivalent from the student's perspective. No benefit was detected for watching an instructional video before the mentored task.
CONCLUSIONS: Remote US skills can be taught equally effectively by using a variety of telemedicine technologies. Smartphones represent a viable option for US training in resource-challenged settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pilot trial of a tele-rehab intervention to improve outcomes after stroke in Ghana: A feasibility and user satisfaction study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tele-rehabilitation after stroke holds promise for under-resourced settings, especially sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), with its immense stroke burden and severely limited physical therapy services.
OBJECTIVE: To preliminarily assess the feasibility and outcomes of mobile technology-assisted physical therapy exercises for stroke survivors in Ghana.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective, single arm, pre-post study involving 20 stroke survivors recruited from a tertiary medical center, who received a Smartphone with the 9zest Stroke App® to deliver individualized, goal-targeted 5-days-a-week exercise program that was remotely supervised by a tele-therapist for 12 weeks. Outcome measures included changes in stroke levity scale scores (SLS), Modified Rankin score (MRS), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA), and feasibility indicators.
RESULTS: Among study participants, mean ± SD age was 54.6 ± 10.2 years, 11 (55%) were men, average time from stroke onset was 6 months. No participants dropped out. Compared with baseline status, mean ± SD scores on SLS improved from 7.5 ± 3.1 to 11.8 ± 2.2 at month 1 (p < 0.0001) and 12.2 ± 2.4 at month 3 (p < 0.0001), MOCA scores improved from 18.2 ± 4.3 to 20.4 ± 4.7 at month 1 (p = 0.14), and 22.2 ± 7.6 at month 3 (p = 0.047). Mean ± SD weekly sessions performed by participants per month was 5.7 ± 5.8 and duration of sessions was 25.5 ± 16.2 min. Erratic internet connectivity negatively affected full compliance with the intervention, although satisfaction ratings by study participants were excellent.
CONCLUSION: It is feasible to administer an m-health delivered physical therapy intervention in SSA, with high user satisfaction. Randomized trials to assess the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of this intervention are warranted.
Label Included: 0

Title: A trial based economic evaluation of occupational therapy discharge planning for older adults: the HOME randomized trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of two occupational therapy-led discharge planning interventions from the HOME trial.
DESIGN: An economic evaluation was conducted within the superiority randomized HOME trial to assess the difference in costs and health-related outcomes associated with the enhanced program and the in-hospital consultation. Total costs of health and community service utilization were used to calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, activities of daily living and quality-adjusted life years.
SETTING: Medical and acute care wards of Australian hospitals ( n=5).
SUBJECTS: A total of 400 people ≥ 70 years of age.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomized to either (1) an enhanced program (HOME), involving pre/post discharge visits and two follow-up phone calls, or (2) an in-hospital consultation using the home and community environment assessment and the Lawton Instrumental Activities of Daily Living assessment.
MAIN MEASURES: Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living (global measure of activities of daily living) and SF-12V2, transformed into SF-6D (quality-adjusted life year) measured at baseline and three months post discharge.
RESULTS: The cost of the enhanced program was higher than that of the in-hospital consultation. However, a higher proportion of patients showed improvement in activities of daily living in the enhanced program with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $61,906.00 per person with clinically meaningful improvement.
CONCLUSION: Health services would not save money by implementing the enhanced program as a routine intervention in medical and acute care wards. Future research should incorporate longer time horizons and consider which patient groups would benefit from home visits.
Label Included: 0

Title: Data-based Decision Rules to Personalize Depression Follow-up.
Abstract: Depression is a common mental illness with complex and heterogeneous progression dynamics. Risk grouping of depression treatment population based on their longitudinal patterns has the potential to enable cost-effective monitoring policy design. This paper establishes a rule-based method to identify a set of risk predictive patterns from person-level longitudinal disease measurements by integrating the data transformation, rule discovery and rule evaluation. We further extend the identified rules to create rule-based monitoring strategies to adaptively monitor individuals with different disease severities. We applied the rule-based method on an electronic health record (EHR) dataset of depression treatment population containing person-level longitudinal Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-9 scores for assessing depression severity. 12 risk predictive rules are identified, and the rule-based prognostic model based on identified rules enables more accurate prediction of disease severity than other prognostic models including RuleFit, logistic regression and Support Vector Machine. Two rule-based monitoring strategies outperform the latest PHQ-9 based monitoring strategy by providing higher sensitivity and specificity. The rule-based method can lead to a better understanding of disease dynamics, achieving more accurate prognostics of disease progressions, personalizing follow-up intervals, and designing cost-effective monitoring of patients in clinical practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Rationale and Design of a Statewide Cohort to examine efficient resource utilization for patients with Intracerebral hemorrhage (EnRICH).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intracerebral hemorrhage is a devastating disease with no specific treatment modalities. A significant proportion of patients with intracerebral hemorrhage are transferred to large stroke treatment centers, such as Comprehensive Stroke Centers, because of perceived need for higher level of care. However, evidence of improvement in patient-centered outcomes for these patients treated at larger stroke treatment centers as compared to community hospitals is lacking. METHODS / DESIGN: "Efficient Resource Utilization for Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage (EnRICH)" is a prospective, multisite, state-wide, cohort study designed to assess the impact of level of care on long-term patient-centered outcomes for patients with primary / non-traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage. The study is funded by the Texas state legislature via the Lone Star Stroke Research Consortium. It is being implemented via major hub hospitals in large metropolitan cities across the state of Texas. Each hub has an extensive network of "spoke" hospitals, which are connected to the hub via traditional clinical and administrative arrangements, or by telemedicine technologies. This infrastructure provides a unique opportunity to track outcomes for intracerebral hemorrhage patients managed across a health system at various levels of care. Eligible patients are enrolled during hospitalization and are followed for functional, quality of life, cognitive, resource utilization, and dependency outcomes at 30 and 90 days post discharge. As a secondary aim, an economic analysis of the incremental cost-effectiveness of treating intracerebral hemorrhage patients at higher levels of care will be conducted.
DISCUSSION: Findings from EnRICH will provide much needed evidence of the effectiveness and efficiency of regionalized care for intracerebral hemorrhage patients. Such evidence is required to inform policy and streamline clinical decision-making.
Label Included: 0

Title: Electrocardiographic-guided tip positioning technique for peripherally inserted central catheters in a Dutch teaching hospital: Feasibility and cost-effectiveness analysis in a prospective cohort study.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION:: Peripherally inserted central catheters are venous devices intended for short to medium periods of intravenous treatment. Positioning of the catheter tip at the cavoatrial junction is necessary for optimum performance of a peripherally inserted central catheter. In this study, safety, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of electrocardiographic-guided peripherally inserted central catheter positioning in a Dutch teaching hospital were evaluated.
METHODS:: All patients who received a peripherally inserted central catheter in 2016 using electrocardiographic guidance were compared to those where fluoroscopy guidance was used in a prospective non-randomized cohort study. Relevant data were extracted from electronic health records. Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed.
RESULTS:: A total of 162 patients received a peripherally inserted central catheter using fluoroscopy guidance and 103 patients using electrocardiographic guidance in 2016. No significant difference was found in malposition, infection or other complications between these groups. Due to personnel reduction and omission of fluoroscopy costs, cost reduction for each catheter insertion was €120 in the first year and, as a result of discounted acquisition costs, €190 in subsequent years.
DISCUSSION:: The positioning results and complication rate are comparable to the previously reported literature. The cost reduction may vary in different hospitals. Other benefits of the electrocardiographic-guided technique are omission of X-ray exposure and improved patient service.
CONCLUSION:: Implementation of electrocardiographic-guided tip positioning for peripherally inserted central catheter was safe and effective in this study and led to an improved high value and cost-conscious care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Reduced Computed Tomography Use in the Emergency Department Evaluation of Headache Was Not Followed by Increased Death or Missed Diagnosis.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: This study investigated whether a 9.6% decrease in the use of head computed tomography (HCT) for patients presenting to the emergency department (ED) with a chief complaint of headache was followed by an increase in proportions of death or missed intracranial diagnosis during the 22.5-month period following each index ED visit.
METHODS: We reviewed the electronic medical records of all patients sampled during a quality improvement effort in which the aforementioned decrease in HCT use had been observed. We reviewed notes from the ED, neurology, neurosurgery, and primary care services, as well as all brain imaging results to determine if death occurred or if an intracranial condition was discovered in the 22.5 months after each index ED visit. An independent, blinded reviewer reviewed each case where an intracranial condition was diagnosed after ED discharge to determine whether the condition was reasonably likely to have been related to the index ED visit's presentation, thereby representing a missed diagnosis.
RESULTS: Of the 582 separate index ED visits sampled, we observed a total of nine deaths and 10 missed intracranial diagnoses. There was no difference in the proportion of death (p = 0.337) or missed intracranial diagnosis (p = 0.312) observed after a 9.6% reduction in HCT use. Among patients who subsequently had visits for headache or brain imaging, we found that these patients were significantly more likely to have not had a HCT done during the index ED visit (59.2% vs. 49.6% (p = 0.031) and 37.1% vs. 26% (p = 0.006), respectively).
CONCLUSION: Our study adds to the compelling evidence that there is opportunity to safely decrease CT imaging for ED patients. To determine the cost effectiveness of such reductions further research is needed to measure what patients and their healthcare providers do after discharge from the ED when unnecessary testing is withheld.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparing the Efficacy of a Mobile Phone-Based Blood Glucose Management System With Standard Clinic Care in Women With Gestational Diabetes: Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Treatment of hyperglycemia in women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is associated with improved maternal and neonatal outcomes and requires intensive clinical input. This is currently achieved by hospital clinic attendance every 2 to 4 weeks with limited opportunity for intervention between these visits.
OBJECTIVE: We conducted a randomized controlled trial to determine whether the use of a mobile phone-based real-time blood glucose management system to manage women with GDM remotely was as effective in controlling blood glucose as standard care through clinic attendance.
METHODS: Women with an abnormal oral glucose tolerance test before 34 completed weeks of gestation were individually randomized to a mobile phone-based blood glucose management solution (GDm-health, the intervention) or routine clinic care. The primary outcome was change in mean blood glucose in each group from recruitment to delivery, calculated with adjustments made for number of blood glucose measurements, proportion of preprandial and postprandial readings, baseline characteristics, and length of time in the study.
RESULTS: A total of 203 women were randomized. Blood glucose data were available for 98 intervention and 85 control women. There was no significant difference in rate of change of blood glucose (-0.16 mmol/L in the intervention and -0.14 mmol/L in the control group per 28 days, P=.78). Women using the intervention had higher satisfaction with care (P=.049). Preterm birth was less common in the intervention group (5/101, 5.0% vs 13/102, 12.7%; OR 0.36, 95% CI 0.12-1.01). There were fewer cesarean deliveries compared with vaginal deliveries in the intervention group (27/101, 26.7% vs 47/102, 46.1%, P=.005). Other glycemic, maternal, and neonatal outcomes were similar in both groups. The median time from recruitment to delivery was similar (intervention: 54 days; control: 49 days; P=.23). However, there were significantly more blood glucose readings in the intervention group (mean 3.80 [SD 1.80] and mean 2.63 [SD 1.71] readings per day in the intervention and control groups, respectively; P<.001). There was no significant difference in direct health care costs between the two groups, with a mean cost difference of the intervention group compared to control of -£1044 (95% CI -£2186 to £99). There were no unexpected adverse outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Remote blood glucocse monitoring in women with GDM is safe. We demonstrated superior data capture using GDm-health. Although glycemic control and maternal and neonatal outcomes were similar, women preferred this model of care. Further studies are required to explore whether digital health solutions can promote desired self-management lifestyle behaviors and dietetic adherence, and influence maternal and neonatal outcomes. Digital blood glucose monitoring may provide a scalable, practical method to address the growing burden of GDM around the world.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01916694; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01916694 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6y3lh2BOQ).
Label Included: 0

Title: Food Insecurity, Food "Deserts," and Glycemic Control in Patients With Diabetes: A Longitudinal Analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Both food insecurity (limited food access owing to cost) and living in areas with low physical access to nutritious foods are public health concerns, but their relative contribution to diabetes management is poorly understood.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This was a prospective cohort study. A random sample of patients with diabetes in a primary care network completed food insecurity assessment in 2013. Low physical food access at the census tract level was defined as no supermarket within 1 mile in urban areas and 10 miles in rural areas. HbA1c measurements were obtained from electronic health records through November 2016. The relationship among food insecurity, low physical food access, and glycemic control (as defined by HbA1c) was analyzed using hierarchical linear mixed models.
RESULTS: Three hundred and ninety-one participants were followed for a mean of 37 months. Twenty percent of respondents reported food insecurity, and 31% resided in an area of low physical food access. In adjusted models, food insecurity was associated with higher HbA1c (difference of 0.6% [6.6 mmol/mol], 95% CI 0.4-0.8 [4.4-8.7], P < 0.0001), which did not improve over time (P = 0.50). Living in an area with low physical food access was not associated with a difference in HbA1c (difference 0.2% [2.2 mmol/mol], 95% CI -0.2 to 0.5 [-2.2 to 5.6], P = 0.33) or with change over time (P = 0.07).
CONCLUSIONS: Food insecurity is associated with higher HbA1c, but living in an area with low physical food access is not. Food insecurity screening and interventions may help improve glycemic control for vulnerable patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of herpes zoster vaccination in an older United Kingdom population.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Vaccination against herpes zoster was introduced in the United Kingdom in 2013 for individuals aged 70 years, with a phased catch-up campaign for 71-79 year olds. Vaccine introduction has resulted in a marked fall in incident herpes zoster and in post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), but formal evaluation of vaccine effectiveness is needed.
METHODS: In a population-based cohort study of older individuals born between 1933 and 1946, we used linked UK anonymised primary care health records for the first three years of the vaccination programme (01/09/2013-31/08/2016) and multivariable Poisson regression to obtain incidence rates and vaccine effectiveness (VE) against zoster and PHN.
RESULTS: Among 516,547 individuals, 21% were vaccinated. Incidence of zoster was 3.15/1000 person-years in vaccinees and 8.80/1000 person-years in unvaccinated individuals. After adjustment, VE was 64% (95%CI = 60-68%) against incident zoster and 81% (95%CI = 61-91%) against PHN, with very similar VE estimates in the routine and catch-up cohorts. VE against zoster was lower in those with a previous history of zoster: 47% (95%CI = 31-58%) versus 64% (95%CI = 60-68%) in those without previous zoster. There was evidence of waning VE over time, from 69% (95%CI = 65-74%) in the first year after vaccination to 45% (95%CI = 29-57%) by the third year.
CONCLUSION: This first formal assessment of VE in the UK zoster vaccination programme demonstrates good effectiveness of zoster vaccine, and very good protection against PHN. The findings provide evidence that VE is similar across the age groups targeted for vaccination in the UK, and on duration of protection of the vaccine in public health use. The study provides key information for decision-makers about the future direction of UK zoster vaccination programme, indicating that the live zoster vaccine may be more cost-effective than estimated previously. It also supports efforts to communicate the benefits of zoster vaccination to address the declining coverage observed across the UK.
Label Included: 0

Title: HBA1C CONTROL AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS IN PATIENTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS INITIATED ON CANAGLIFLOZIN OR A GLUCAGON-LIKE PEPTIDE 1 RECEPTOR AGONIST IN A REAL-WORLD SETTING.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) control and medication costs between patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) treated with canagliflozin 300 mg (CANA) or a glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) in a real-world setting.
METHODS: Adults with T2DM newly initiated on CANA or a GLP-1 RA (index date) were identified from IQVIA™ Real-World Data Electronic Medical Records U.S. database (March 29, 2012-April 30, 2016). Inverse probability of treatment weighting accounted for differences in baseline characteristics. HbA1c levels at 3-month intervals were compared using generalized estimating equations. Medication costs used wholesale acquisition costs.
RESULTS: For both cohorts (CANA: n = 11,435; GLP-1 RA: n = 11,582), HbA1c levels decreased at 3 months postindex and remained lower through 30 months. Absolute changes in mean HbA1c from index to 3 months postindex for CANA and GLP-1 RA were -1.16% and -1.21% (patients with baseline HbA1c ≥7% [53 mmol/mol]); -1.54% and -1.51% (patients with baseline HbA1c ≥8% [64 mmol/mol]); and -2.13% and -1.99% (patients with baseline HbA1c ≥9% [75 mmol/mol]), respectively. Postindex, CANA patients with baseline HbA1c ≥7% had similar HbA1c levels at each interval versus GLP-1 RA patients, except 9 months (mean HbA1c, 7.75% [61 mmol/mol] vs. 7.86% [62 mmol/mol]; P = .0305). CANA patients with baseline HbA1c ≥8% and ≥9% had consistently lower HbA1c numerically versus GLP-1 RA patients and statistically lower HbA1c at 9 (baseline HbA1c ≥8% or ≥9%), 27, and 30 months (baseline HbA1c ≥9%). Continuous 12-month medication cost $3,326 less for CANA versus GLP-1 RA.
CONCLUSION: This retrospective study demonstrated a similar evolution of HbA1c levels among CANA and GLP-1 RA patients in a real-world setting. Lower medication costs suggest CANA is economically dominant over GLP-1 RA (similar effectiveness, lower cost).
ABBREVIATIONS: AHA = antihyperglycemic agent BMI = body mass index CANA = canagliflozin 300 mg DCSI = diabetes complications severity index eGFR = estimated glomerular filtration rate EMR = electronic medical record GLP-1 RA = glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist HbA1c = glycated hemoglobin ICD-9-CM = International Classification of Diseases-Ninth Revision-Clinical Modification ICD-10-CM = International Classification of Diseases-Tenth Revision-Clinical Modification IPTW = inverse probability of treatment weighting ITT = intent-to-treat MPR = medication possession ratio PDC = proportion of days covered PS = propensity score PSM = propensity score matching Quan-CCI = Quan-Charlson comorbidity index SGLT2 = sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus WAC = wholesale acquisition cost.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home Oxygen in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.
Abstract: Two landmark trials conducted more than 35 years ago provided scientific evidence that, under very specific circumstances, long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) may prolong life. These two trials enrolled 290 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and severe daytime hypoxemia documented by direct arterial blood gas measurement. From that time, LTOT became a standard of care, and the indications for oxygen therapy expanded to include nocturnal oxygen therapy for isolated nocturnal oxygen desaturation, ambulatory oxygen to correct exercise-induced desaturation, and short-burst oxygen to relieve dyspnea. In most cases, the rationale for broadening the indications for oxygen therapy is that, if hypoxemia exists, correcting it by increasing the FiO2 should help. However, with the exception of LTOT in severely hypoxemic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, randomized controlled trials of oxygen therapy have failed to demonstrate clinically significant benefits. Also, adherence to LTOT is usually suboptimal. Important areas for future research include improving understanding of the mechanisms of action of supplemental oxygen, the clinical and biochemical predictors of responsiveness to LTOT, the methods for measuring and enhancing adherence to LTOT, and the cost-effectiveness of oxygen therapy. A standardization of terminology to describe the use of supplemental oxygen at home is provided.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cryptanalysis and improvement of a biometrics-based authentication and key agreement scheme for multi-server environments.
Abstract: According to advancements in the wireless technologies, study of biometrics-based multi-server authenticated key agreement schemes has acquired a lot of momentum. Recently, Wang et al. presented a three-factor authentication protocol with key agreement and claimed that their scheme was resistant to several prominent attacks. Unfortunately, this paper indicates that their protocol is still vulnerable to the user impersonation attack, privileged insider attack and server spoofing attack. Furthermore, their protocol cannot provide the perfect forward secrecy. As a remedy of these aforementioned problems, we propose a biometrics-based authentication and key agreement scheme for multi-server environments. Compared with various related schemes, our protocol achieves the stronger security and provides more functionality properties. Besides, the proposed protocol shows the satisfactory performances in respect of storage requirement, communication overhead and computational cost. Thus, our protocol is suitable for expert systems and other multi-server architectures. Consequently, the proposed protocol is more appropriate in the distributed networks.
Label Included: 0

Title: The feasibility of early pulmonary rehabilitation and activity after COPD exacerbations: external pilot randomised controlled trial, qualitative case study and exploratory economic evaluation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) affects > 3 million people in the UK. Acute exacerbations of COPD (AECOPD) are the second most common reason for emergency hospital admission in the UK. Pulmonary rehabilitation is usual care for stable COPD but there is little evidence for early pulmonary rehabilitation (EPR) following AECOPD, either in hospital or immediately post discharge.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the feasibility of recruiting patients, collecting data and delivering EPR to patients with AECOPD to evaluate EPR compared with usual care.
DESIGN: Parallel-group, pilot 2 × 2 factorial randomised trial with nested qualitative research and an economic analysis.
SETTING: Two acute hospital NHS trusts. Recruitment was carried out from September 2015 to April 2016 and follow-up was completed in July 2016.
PARTICIPANTS: Eligible patients were those aged ≥ 35 years who were admitted with AECOPD, who were non-acidotic and who maintained their blood oxygen saturation level (SpO2) within a prescribed range. Exclusions included the presence of comorbidities that affected the ability to undertake the interventions.
INTERVENTIONS: (1) Hospital EPR: muscle training delivered at the patient's hospital bed using a cycle ergometer and (2) home EPR: a pulmonary rehabilitation programme delivered in the patient's home. Both interventions were delivered by trained physiotherapists. Participants were allocated on a 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ratio to (1) hospital EPR (n = 14), (2) home EPR (n = 15), (3) hospital EPR and home EPR (n = 14) and (4) control (n = 15). Outcome assessors were blind to treatment allocation; it was not possible to blind patients.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Feasibility of recruiting 76 participants in 7 months at two centres; intervention delivery; views on intervention/research acceptability; clinical outcomes including the 6-minute walk distance (6WMD); and costs. Semistructured interviews with participants (n = 27) and research health professionals (n = 11), optimisation assessments and an economic analysis were also undertaken.
RESULTS: Over 7 months 449 patients were screened, of whom most were not eligible for the trial or felt too ill/declined entry. In total, 58 participants (76%) of the target 76 participants were recruited to the trial. The primary clinical outcome (6MWD) was difficult to collect (hospital EPR, n = 5; home EPR, n = 6; hospital EPR and home EPR, n = 5; control, n = 5). Hospital EPR was difficult to deliver over 5 days because of patient discharge/staff availability, with 34.1% of the scheduled sessions delivered compared with 78.3% of the home EPR sessions. Serious adverse events were experienced by 26 participants (45%), none of which was related to the interventions. Interviewed participants generally found both interventions to be acceptable. Home EPR had a higher rate of acceptability, mainly because patients felt too unwell when in hospital to undergo hospital EPR. Physiotherapists generally found the interventions to be acceptable and valued them but found delivery difficult because of staffing issues. The health economic analysis results suggest that there would be value in conducting a larger trial to assess the cost-effectiveness of the hospital EPR and hospital EPR plus home EPR trial arms and collect more information to inform the hospital cost and quality-adjusted life-year parameters, which were shown to be key drivers of the model.
CONCLUSIONS: A full-scale randomised controlled trial using this protocol would not be feasible. Recruitment and delivery of the hospital EPR intervention was difficult. The data obtained can be used to design a full-scale trial of home EPR. Because of the small sample and large confidence intervals, this study should not be used to inform clinical practice.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN18634494.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 22, No. 11. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Palliative care in the home: a scoping review of study quality, primary outcomes, and thematic component analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The aim of palliative care is to improve the quality of life of patients and families through the prevention and relief of suffering. Frequently, patients may choose to receive palliative care in the home. The objective of this paper is to summarize the quality and primary outcomes measured within the palliative care in the home literature. This will synthesize the current state of the literature and inform future work.
METHODS: A scoping review was completed using PRISMA guidelines. PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, EconLit, PsycINFO, Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, and National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database were searched from inception to August 2016. Inclusion criteria included: 1) care was provided in the "home of the patient" as defined by the study, 2) outcomes were reported, and 3) reported original data. Thematic component analysis was completed to categorize interventions.
RESULTS: Fifty-three studies formed the final data set. The literature varied extensively. Five themes were identified: accessibility of healthcare, caregiver support, individualized patient centered care, multidisciplinary care provision, and quality improvement. Primary outcomes were resource use, symptom burden, quality of life, satisfaction, caregiver distress, place of death, cost analysis, or described experiences. The majority of studies were of moderate or unclear quality.
CONCLUSIONS: There is robust literature of varying quality, assessing different components of palliative care in the home interventions, and measuring different outcomes. To be meaningful to patients, these interventions need to be consistently evaluated with outcomes that matter to patients. Future research could focus on reaching a consensus for outcomes to evaluate palliative care in the home interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth in the Elderly with Chronic Heart Failure: What Is the Evidence?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In a series of studies over the past decade we have measured the effectiveness of telehealth for elderly heart failure patients (&gt;70 years) on rehospitalisation, mortality, adherence, satisfaction, cost effectiveness, health related quality of life, age and types of technology.
METHODS: Evidence has been derived from a Cochrane systematic review and meta-analysis (1 original and 2 updates: 2007-2016), two sub-analysis of this data and a large NHMRC funded multicentre randomised controlled trial (CHAT study 2010).
RESULTS: Within the studies included in the meta-analysis the mean age was 70 or more years in eight of the 16 (n=2,659/5,613; 47%) involving structured telephone support studies and four of the 11 (n=894/2,710; 33%) Telemonitoring studies. Structured telephone support (RR 0.80; 95% CI=0.63-1.00) and Telemonitoring (RR 0.56; 95% CI=0.41-0.76) interventions reduced mortality. Structured telephone support interventions reduced heart failure-related hospitalizations (RR 0.81; 95% CI=0.67-0.99). Four different types of non-invasive remote monitoring technologies were identified, including structured telephone calls, videophone, interactive voice response devices, and Telemonitoring. Structured telephone calls and Telemonitoring were effective in reducing the risk of all-cause mortality (relative risk [RR]=0.87; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.75-1.01; p=0.06; and RR=0.62; 95% CI, 0.50-0.77; p&lt;0.0001, respectively) and heart failure-related hospitalizations (RR=0.77; 95% CI, 0.68-0.87;p&lt;0.001; and RR=0.75; 95% CI, 0.63-0.91; p=0.003, respectively). Videophone and interactive voice response technologies were not effective. Only 3% of this elderly group (mean age 74.7+/-9.3 years) were unable to learn or competently use the technology. Adherence was reported between 55.1%and 98.5%. Participant satisfaction with Telehealth was reported between 76% and 97%.
CONCLUSION: These studies show that elderly patients can adapt quickly to telehealth, find its use an acceptable part of their healthcare routine, and are able to maintain good adherence for at least 12 months. These findings support the use of telehealth as part of a comprehensive chronic heart failure management programme.goes here.
Label Included: 0

Title: Rheumatoid factor testing in Spanish primary care: A population-based cohort study including 4.8 million subjects and almost half a million measurements.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Rheumatoid factor (RF) testing is used in primary care in the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA); however a positive RF may occur without RA. Incorrect use of RF testing may lead to increased costs and delayed diagnoses. The aim was to assess the performance of RF as a test for RA and to estimate the costs associated with its use in a primary care setting.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective cohort study using the Information System for the Development of Research in Primary Care database (contains primary care records and laboratory results of >80% of the Catalonian population, Spain). Participants were patients ≥18 years with ≥1 RF test performed between 01/01/2006 and 31/12/2011, without a pre-existing diagnosis of RA. Outcome measures were an incident diagnosis of RA within 1 year of testing, and the cost of testing per case of RA.
RESULTS: 495,434/4,796,498 (10.3%) patients were tested at least once. 107,362 (21.7%) of those tested were sero-positive of which 2768 (2.6%) were diagnosed with RA within 1 year as were 1141/388,072 (0.3%) sero-negative participants. The sensitivity of RF was 70.8% (95% CI 69.4-72.2), specificity 78.7% (78.6-78.8), and positive and negative predictive values 2.6% (2.5-2.7) and 99.7% (99.6-99.7) respectively. Approximately €3,963,472 was spent, with a cost of €1432 per true positive case.
CONCLUSIONS: Although 10% of patients were tested for RF, most did not have RA. Limiting testing to patients with a higher pre-test probability would significantly reduce the cost of testing.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost and outcome of a community-based paediatric hearing screening programme in rural India with application of tele-audiology for follow-up diagnostic hearing assessment.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated the cost and outcome of a community-based hearing screening programme in which village health workers (VHWs) screened children in their homes using a two-step DPOAE screening protocol. Children referred in a second screening underwent tele diagnostic ABR testing in a mobile tele-van using satellite connectivity or at local centre using broadband internet at the rural location.
DESIGN: Economic analysis was carried out to estimate cost incurred and outcome achieved for hearing screening, follow-up diagnostic assessment and identification of hearing loss. Two-way sensitivity analysis determined the most beneficial cost-outcome.
STUDY SAMPLE: 1335 children under 5 years of age underwent screening by VHWs.
RESULTS: Nineteen of the 22 children referred completed the tele diagnostic evaluation. Five children were identified with hearing loss. The cost-outcomes were better when using broadband internet for tele-diagnostics. The use of least expensive human resources and equipment yielded the lowest cost per child screened (Rs.1526; $23; €21). When follow-up expenses were thus maximised, the cost per child was reduced considerably for diagnostic hearing assessment (Rs.102,065; $1532; €1368) and for the cost per child identified (Rs.388,237; $5826; €5204).
CONCLUSION: Settings with constrained resources can benefit from a community-based programme integrated with tele diagnostics.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health Economic Evaluation of Home and Hospital-Based Care in T2D Patients on Insulin Therapy.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Type 2 Diabetes is a main concern of public health in contemporary world with remarkable mortality, delayed complications and health costs. Governments are obliged to improve the quality of health care and consider appropriate strategies to reduce the costs. An alternative strategy for hospital services is care at home. Therefore, this study was aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of home-based and hospital-based diabetes care.
METHODS: A quasi-experimental, pre-test and post-test design was conducted in Northwest Iran. Sixty subjects who were eligible insulin-treatment type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomly assigned into two equal groups to receive home-based or conventional hospital-based care. Data on glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), hypoglycemia episodes, time needed to achieve glycemic control level, diabetes treatment satisfaction, diabetes knowledge and costs during three months were collected.
RESULTS: The cost of home-based care in insulin therapy diabetes was 61% less compared with the hospital-based methods. The former strategy was cost-effective in terms of reduction in HbA1C and the time needed to achieve glycemic control. The patients in home care group were more satisfied and knowledgeable.
CONCLUSIONS: The care at home approach for type 2 diabetic patients can be introduced and supported as a cost-effective care method in the country.
Label Included: 0

Title: A web-based self-management programme for people with type 2 diabetes: the HeLP-Diabetes research programme including RCT
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the UK, 6% of the UK population have diabetes mellitus, 90% of whom have type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Diabetes mellitus accounts for 10% of NHS expenditure (£14B annually). Good self-management may improve health outcomes. NHS policy is to refer all people with T2DM to structured education, on diagnosis, to improve their self-management skills, with annual reinforcement thereafter. However, uptake remains low (5.6% in 2014–15). Almost all structured education is group based, which may not suit people who work, who have family or other caring commitments or who simply do not like group-based formats. Moreover, patient needs vary with time and a single education session at diagnosis is unlikely to meet these evolving needs. A web-based programme may increase uptake.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to develop, evaluate and implement a web-based self-management programme for people with T2DM at any stage of their illness journey, with the goal of improving access to, and uptake of, self-management support, thereby improving health outcomes in a cost-effective manner. Specific objectives were to (1) develop an evidence-based theoretically informed programme that was acceptable to patients and health-care professionals (HCPs) and that could be readily implemented within routine NHS care, (2) determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the programme compared with usual care and (3) determine how best to integrate the programme into routine care.
DESIGN: There were five linked work packages (WPs). WP A determined patient requirements and WP B determined HCP requirements for the self-management programme. WP C developed and user-tested the Healthy Living for People with type 2 Diabetes (HeLP-Diabetes) programme. WP D was an individually randomised controlled trial in primary care with a health economic analysis. WP E used a mixed-methods and case-study design to study the potential for implementing the HeLP-Diabetes programme within routine NHS practice.
SETTING: English primary care.
PARTICIPANTS: People with T2DM (WPs A, D and E) or HCPs caring for people with T2DM (WPs B, C and E).
INTERVENTION: The HeLP-Diabetes programme; an evidence-based theoretically informed web-based self-management programme for people with T2DM at all stages of their illness journey, developed using participatory design principles.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: WPs A and B provided data on user ‘wants and needs’, including factors that would improve the uptake and accessibility of the HeLP-Diabetes programme. The outcome for WP C was the HeLP-Diabetes programme itself. The trial (WP D) had two outcomes measures: glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) level and diabetes mellitus-related distress, as measured with the Problem Areas in Diabetes (PAID) scale. The implementation outcomes (WP E) were the adoption and uptake at clinical commissioning group, general practice and patient levels and the identification of key barriers and facilitators.
RESULTS: Data from WPs A and B supported our holistic approach and addressed all areas of self-management (medical, emotional and role management). HCPs voiced concerns about linkage with the electronic medical records (EMRs) and supporting patients to use the programme. The HeLP-Diabetes programme was developed and user-tested in WP C. The trial (WP D) recruited to target (n = 374), achieved follow-up rates of over 80% and the intention-to-treat analysis showed that there was an additional improvement in HbA1c levels at 12 months in the intervention group [mean difference –0.24%, 95% confidence interval (CI) –0.44% to –0.049%]. There was no difference in overall PAID score levels (mean difference –1.5 points, 95% CI –3.9 to 0.9 points). The within-trial health economic analysis found that incremental costs were lower in the intervention group than in the control group (mean difference –£111, 95% CI –£384 to £136) and the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were higher (mean difference 0.02 QALYs, 95% CI 0.000 to 0.044 QALYs), meaning that the HeLP-Diabetes programme group dominated the control group. In WP E, we found that the HeLP-Diabetes programme could be successfully implemented in primary care. General practices that supported people in registering for the HeLP-Diabetes programme had better uptake and registered patients from a wider demographic than those relying on patient self-registration. Some HCPs were reluctant to do this, as they did not see it as part of their professional role.
LIMITATIONS: We were unable to link the HeLP-Diabetes programme with the EMRs or to determine the effects of the HeLP-Diabetes programme on users in the implementation study.
CONCLUSIONS: The HeLP-Diabetes programme is an effective self-management support programme that is implementable in primary care.
FUTURE WORK: The HeLP-Diabetes research team will explore the following in future work: research to determine how to improve patient uptake of self-management support; develop and evaluate a structured digital educational pathway for newly diagnosed people; develop and evaluate a digital T2DM prevention programme; and the national implementation of the HeLP-Diabetes programme.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Research Ethics Committee reference number 10/H0722/86 for WPs A–C; Research Ethics Committee reference number 12/LO/1571 and UK Clinical Research Network/National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Portfolio 13563 for WP D; and Research Ethics Committee 13/EM/0033 for WP E. In addition, for WP D, the study was registered with the International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Register as reference number ISRCTN02123133.
FUNDING DETAILS: This project was funded by the NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research programme and will be published in full in Programme Grants for Applied Research; Vol. 6, No. 5. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth for the Assessment and Treatment of Depression, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, and Anxiety: Clinical Evidence
Abstract: The purpose of this report is to synthesize and critically appraise the available evidence on the clinical effectiveness of telepsychotherapy for the assessment and treatment of major depression, generalized anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in adult patients. This report is an update of a 2015 CADTH Rapid Response Report on “Tele-medicine for Patients with Mental Health Disorders: Clinical and Cost-effectiveness”.
Label Included: 0

Title: Outcomes and costs of Ranibizumab and Aflibercept treatment in a health-service research context.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: To compare anti-VEGF treatments for macular disease in terms of costs and clinical outcomes.
METHODS: We identified patients suffering from macular disease and treated either with aflibercept, ranibizumab or both at the largest public eye clinic in Switzerland between January 1st and December 31st 2016 who were insured in one of the two participating health insurance companies. Clinical data were extracted from the electronic health record system. The health insurers provided the health claim costs for the ophthalmologic care and the total health care costs of each patient in the observation period. Using multivariate regression models, we assessed the monthly ophthalmologic and the monthly total costs of patients with no history of switching (ranibizumab vs. aflibercept), patients with a history of switching from ranibizumab to aflibercept, patients switching during the observation period and a miscellaneous group. We examined baseline differences in age, proportion of males, visual acuity (letters), central retinal thickness (CRT) and treatment history before entering the study. We investigated treatment intensity and compared the changes in letters and CRT.
RESULTS: The analysis involved 488 eyes (361 patients), 182 on ranibizumab treatment, and 63 on aflibercept treatment, 160 eyes with a history of switching from ranibizumab to aflibercept, and 45 switchers during follow-up and 38 eyes of the miscellaneous group. Compared to ranibizumab, monthly costs of ophthalmologic treatment were slightly higher for aflibercept treatment + 175.0 CHF (95%CI: 1.5 CHF to 348.3 CHF; p = 0.048) as were the total monthly costs + 581.0 CHF (95%CI: 159.5 CHF to 1002.4 CHF; p = 0.007). Compared to ranibizumab, the monthly treatment intensity with aflibercept was similar (+ 0.057 injections/month (95%CI -0.023 to 0.137; p = 0.162), corresponding to a projected annual number of 5.4 injections for ranibizumab vs. 6.1 injections for aflibercept. During follow-up, visus dropped by 0.7 letters with ranibizumab and increased by 0.6 letters with aflibercept (p = 0.243). CRT dropped by - 14.9 μm with ranibizumab and by - 19.5 μm with aflibercept (p = 0.708). The monthly costs of all other groups examined were higher.
CONCLUSION: These real-life data show that aflibercept treatment is equally expensive, and clinical outcomes between the two drugs are similar.
Label Included: 0

Title: Intensive home treatment for patients in acute psychiatric crisis situations: a multicentre randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hospitalization is a common method to intensify care for patients experiencing a psychiatric crisis. A short-term, specialised, out-patient crisis intervention by a Crisis Resolution Team (CRT) in the Netherlands, called Intensive Home Treatment (IHT), is a viable intervention which may help reduce hospital admission days. However, research on the (cost-)effectiveness of alternatives to hospitalisation such as IHT are scarce. In the study presented in this protocol, IHT will be compared to care-as-usual (CAU) in a randomized controlled trial (RCT). CAU comprises low-intensity outpatient care and hospitalisation if necessary. In this RCT it is hypothesized that IHT will reduce inpatient days by 33% compared to CAU while safety and clinical outcomes will be non-inferior. Secondary hypotheses are that treatment satisfaction of patients and their relatives are expected to be higher in the IHT condition compared to CAU.
METHODS: A 2-centre, 2-arm Zelen double consent RCT will be employed. Participants will be recruited in the Amsterdam area, the Netherlands. Clinical assessments will be carried out at baseline and at 6, 26 and 52 weeks post treatment allocation. The primary outcome measure is the number of admission days. Secondary outcomes include psychological well-being, safety and patients' and their relatives' treatment satisfaction. Alongside this RCT an economic evaluation will be carried out to assess the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of IHT compared to CAU.
DISCUSSION: RCTs on the effectiveness of crisis treatment in psychiatry are scarce and including patients in studies performed in acute psychiatric crisis care is a challenge due to the ethical and practical hurdles. The Zelen design may offer a feasible opportunity to carry out such an RCT. If our study finds that IHT is a safe and cost-effective alternative for CAU it may help support a further decrease of in-patient bed days and may foster the widespread implementation of IHT by mental health care organisations internationally.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial is registered in the Netherlands Trial Register as # NTR-6151 . Registered 23 November 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home versus hospital immunoglobulin treatment for autoimmune neuropathies: A cost minimization analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Prior clinical trials have suggested that home-based Ig treatment in multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) and its variant Lewis-Sumner syndrome (LSS) is safe and effective and is less costly than hospital-administered intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg).
METHODS: A French prospective, dual-center, cost minimization analysis was carried out to evaluate IVIg administration (5% concentrated) at home versus in hospital with regard to costs, patients' autonomy, and patients' quality of life. The primary endpoint was the overall cost of treatment, and we adopted the perspective of the payer (French Social Health Insurance).
RESULTS: Twenty-four patients aged 52.3 (12.2) years were analyzed: nine patients with MMN, eight with CIDP, and seven with LSS. IVIg (g/kg) dosage was 1.51 ± 0.43 in hospital and 1.52 ± 0.4 at home. Nine-month total costs per patient extrapolated to 1 year of treatment were €48,189 ± 26,105 versus €91,798 ± 51,125 in the home and hospital groups, respectively (p < .0001). The most frequently reported factors for choosing home treatment were the good tolerance and absence of side effects of IVIg administration, as well as a good understanding of the advantages and drawbacks of home treatment (75% of respondents). The mRankin scores before and after switch to home treatment were 1.61 ± 0.72 and 1.36 ± 0.76, respectively (p = .027).
DISCUSSION: The switch from hospital-based to home-based IVIg treatment for patients with immune neuropathy represents potentially significant savings in the management of the disease.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Savings from Reducing Pain Through the Delivery of Integrative Medicine Program to Hospitalized Patients.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: An important task facing hospitals is improving pain management without raising costs. Integrative medicine (IM), a promising nonpharmacologic pain management strategy, is yet to be examined for its cost implications in an inpatient setting. This institution has had an inpatient IM department for over a decade. The purpose was to examine the relationship between changes in patients' pain, as a result of receiving IM therapy, and total cost of care during an inpatient hospital admission.
DESIGN: In this retrospective analysis, data from an EPIC-based electronic health record (EHR) patient demographics, length of stay (LOS), and All Patient Refined Diagnosis Related Groups (APR-DRG) severity of illness measures were utilized. IM practitioners collected and entered patient-reported pain scores into the EHR. The authors regressed the demographic, change in pain, LOS, and APR-DRG variables with changes in pain on total cost for the hospital admission. To estimate cost savings to the hospital, they computed the average reduction in cost associated with reduction in pain by multiplying the coefficient for change in pain by average total cost.
SETTING/LOCATION: A large, tertiary care hospital in Minneapolis, MN.
SUBJECTS: Adult inpatient admissions, 2730, during the study period where patients received IM for pain and met eligibility criteria.
INTERVENTION: IM services provided to inpatients.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Change in pain on an 11-point numeric rating scale before and after initial IM sessions; total costs for hospital admissions.
RESULTS: Both LOS and age were found to increase cost, as did being white, male, married, and having APR-DRG severity coded as extreme. For patients receiving IM therapies, pain was reduced by an average of 2.05 points and this pain reduction was associated with a cost savings of $898 per hospital admission.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients receiving IM therapies, pain was significantly reduced and costs were lowered by about 4%.
Label Included: 0

Title: Investigating the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of FITNET-NHS (Fatigue In Teenagers on the interNET in the NHS) compared to Activity Management to treat paediatric chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)/myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME): protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Paediatric chronic fatigue syndrome or myalgic encephalomyelitis (CFS/ME) is a relatively common and disabling condition. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) recommends Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) as a treatment option for paediatric CFS/ME because there is good evidence that it is effective. Despite this, most young people in the UK are unable to access local specialist CBT for CFS/ME. A randomised controlled trial (RCT) showed FITNET was effective in the Netherlands but we do not know if it is effective in the National Health Service (NHS) or if it is cost-effective. This trial will investigate whether FITNET-NHS is clinically effective and cost-effective in the NHS.
METHODS: Seven hundred and thirty-four paediatric patients (aged 11-17 years) with CFS/ ME will be randomised (1:1) to receive either FITNET-NHS (online CBT) or Activity Management (delivered via video call). The internal pilot study will use integrated qualitative methods to examine the feasibility of recruitment and the acceptability of treatment. The full trial will assess whether FITNET-NHS is clinically effective and cost-effective. The primary outcome is disability at 6 months, measured using the SF-36-PFS (Physical Function Scale) questionnaire. Cost-effectiveness is measured via cost-utility analysis from an NHS perspective. Secondary subgroup analysis will investigate the effectiveness of FITNET-NHS in those with co-morbid mood disorders.
DISCUSSION: If FITNET-NHS is found to be feasible and acceptable (internal pilot) and effective and cost-effective (full trial), its provision by the NHS has the potential to deliver substantial health gains for the large number of young people suffering from CFS/ME but unable to access treatment because there is no local specialist service. This trial will provide further evidence evaluating the delivery of online CBT to young people with chronic conditions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN registry, registration number: ISRCTN18020851 . Registered on 4 August 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Medicaid Becomes the First Third-Party Payer to Cover Passive Remote Monitoring for Home Care: Policy Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Recent years have seen an influx of location-tracking, activity-monitoring sensors, and Web-cameras to remotely monitor the safety of older adults in their homes and to reduce reliance on in-person assistance. The state of research on these monitoring technologies leaves open crucial financial, social, and ethical cost-benefit questions, which have prevented widespread use. Medicaid is now the first large third-party payer in the United States to pay for these technologies, and their use is likely to increase as states transition to managed long-term services and supports (MLTSS).
OBJECTIVES: This is the first study to examine how state Medicaid programs are treating passive remote monitoring technologies. This study identifies (1) which states allow location tracking, sensor systems, and cameras; (2) what policies are in place to track their use; (3) what implementation processes and program monitoring mechanisms are in place; and (4) what related insights Medicaid program stakeholders would like to learn from researchers.
METHODS: Interviews were conducted with 43 state, federal, and managed care organization (MCO) Medicaid program stakeholders about how these technologies are used in state waivers serving community-dwelling older adults in 15 states, and what policies are in place to regulate them. The interviews were analyzed by the research team using the framework analysis method for applied policy research.
RESULTS: Two-thirds of the states cover location tracking and activity-monitoring sensors and one-third cover cameras, but only 3 states have specific service categories that allow them to track when they are paying for any of these technologies, impeding regulation and understanding of their use at the state and federal level. Consideration of ethical and social risks is limited, and states struggle to understand which circumstances warrant use. They are further challenged by extreme resource restrictions and transitions to MLTSS by MCOs inexperienced in serving this growing "high-need, high-cost" population.
CONCLUSIONS: Decisions about Medicaid reimbursement of technologies that have the potential to dramatically alter the way older adults receive supportive services are being made without research on their use, social and ethical implications, or outcomes. At a minimum, new service categories are needed to enable oversight. Participants prioritized 3 research aims to inform practice: (1) determine cost-effectiveness; (2) identify what type of information beneficiaries want to be generated and whom they want it to be shared with; and (3) understand how to support ethical decision making for beneficiaries with cognitive impairment. These findings provide direction for future research and reveal that greater interaction between policy makers and researchers in this field is needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Administrative Costs Associated With Physician Billing and Insurance-Related Activities at an Academic Health Care System.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Administrative costs in the US health care system are an important component of total health care spending, and a substantial proportion of these costs are attributable to billing and insurance-related activities.
OBJECTIVE: To examine and estimate the administrative costs associated with physician billing activities in a large academic health care system with a certified electronic health record system.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This study used time-driven activity-based costing. Interviews were conducted with 27 health system administrators and 34 physicians in 2016 and 2017 to construct a process map charting the path of an insurance claim through the revenue cycle management process. These data were used to calculate the cost for each major billing and insurance-related activity and were aggregated to estimate the health system's total cost of processing an insurance claim.
EXPOSURES: Estimated time required to perform billing and insurance-related activities, based on interviews with management personnel and physicians.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Estimated billing and insurance-related costs for 5 types of patient encounters: primary care visits, discharged emergency department visits, general medicine inpatient stays, ambulatory surgical procedures, and inpatient surgical procedures.
RESULTS: Estimated processing time and total costs for billing and insurance-related activities were 13 minutes and $20.49 for a primary care visit, 32 minutes and $61.54 for a discharged emergency department visit, 73 minutes and $124.26 for a general inpatient stay, 75 minutes and $170.40 for an ambulatory surgical procedure, and 100 minutes and $215.10 for an inpatient surgical procedure. Of these totals, time and costs for activities carried out by physicians were estimated at a median of 3 minutes or $6.36 for a primary care visit, 3 minutes or $10.97 for an emergency department visit, 5 minutes or $13.29 for a general inpatient stay, 15 minutes or $51.20 for an ambulatory surgical procedure, and 15 minutes or $51.20 for an inpatient surgical procedure. Of professional revenue, professional billing costs were estimated to represent 14.5% for primary care visits, 25.2% for emergency department visits, 8.0% for general medicine inpatient stays, 13.4% for ambulatory surgical procedures, and 3.1% for inpatient surgical procedures.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In a time-driven activity-based costing study in a large academic health care system with a certified electronic health record system, the estimated costs of billing and insurance-related activities ranged from $20 for a primary care visit to $215 for an inpatient surgical procedure. Knowledge of how specific billing and insurance-related activities contribute to administrative costs may help inform policy solutions to reduce these expenses.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of collaborative care for depression and PTSD in military personnel.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Collaborative care is an effective approach for treating posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression within the US Military Health System (MHS), but its cost-effectiveness remains unstudied. Our objective was to evaluate the costs and cost-effectiveness of centrally assisted collaborative telecare (CACT) versus optimized usual care (OUC) for PTSD and depression in the MHS.
STUDY DESIGN: A randomized trial compared CACT with OUC. Routine primary care screening identified active-duty service members with PTSD or depression. Eligible participants (N = 666) were randomized to CACT or OUC and assessed at 3, 6, and 12 months. OUC patients could receive care management and increased behavioral health support. CACT patients could receive these services plus stepped psychosocial treatment and routine centralized team monitoring.
METHODS: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were derived from the 12-Item Short Form Health Survey. Claims and case management data were used to estimate costs. Cost-effectiveness analyses were conducted from a societal perspective.
RESULTS: Data from 629 patients (320 CACT and 309 OUC) with sufficient follow-up were analyzed. CACT patients gained 0.02 QALYs (95% CI, -0.001 to 0.03) relative to OUC patients. Twelve-month costs, including productivity, were $987 (95% CI, -$3056 to $5030) higher for CACT versus OUC. CACT was estimated to cost $49,346 per QALY gained compared with OUC over 12 months. There is a 58% probability that CACT is cost-effective at a $100,000/QALY threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite its higher costs, CACT appears to be a cost-effective strategy relative to OUC for managing PTSD and depression in the MHS.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effects of prescribing varenicline on two-year health outcomes: an observational cohort study using electronic medical records.
Abstract: AIMS: To investigate whether smokers prescribed varenicline had lower risks of serious ill-health during the 4 years following treatment compared with those prescribed nicotine replacement therapy (NRT).
DESIGN: Observational cohort study of electronic medical records.
SETTING: A total of 370 UK general practices sampled from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 126 718 patients aged 18 and over who were issued smoking cessation prescriptions between 1 September 2006 and 31 March 2014.
MEASUREMENTS: Our primary outcome was all-cause mortality within 2 years of first prescription as indicated by linked Office of National Statistics data. Our secondary outcomes were cause-specific mortality, all-cause, cause-specific hospitalization, primary care diagnosis of myocardial infarction or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), body mass index and attendance rate to primary care within 2 years of first prescription. Risk differences and 95% confidence intervals were estimated by multivariable adjusted regression and propensity score matched regression. We used instrumental variable analysis to overcome residual confounding.
FINDINGS: People prescribed varenicline were healthier at baseline than those prescribed NRT in almost all characteristics, highlighting the potential for residual confounding. Our instrumental variable analysis results found that people prescribed varenicline had a similar risk of mortality at 2 years [risk difference per 100 patients treated = 0.67, 95% confidence interval (CI) = -0.11 to 1.46)] to those prescribed NRT, and there were similar rates of all-cause hospitalization, incident primary-care diagnoses of myocardial infarction and COPD. People prescribed varenicline subsequently attended primary care less frequently.
CONCLUSIONS: Smokers prescribed varenicline in primary care in the United Kingdom do not appear to be less likely to die, be hospitalized or experience a myocardial infarction or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease during the following 2 years compared with smokers prescribed nicotine replacement therapy, but they gain more weight and attend primary care less frequently.
Label Included: 0

Title: HEALTH TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT EVIDENCE ON E-HEALTH/M-HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES: EVALUATING THE TRANSPARENCY AND THOROUGHNESS.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Evaluation is crucial for integration of e-Health/m-Health into healthcare systems and health technology assessment (HTA) could offer sound methodological basis for these evaluations. Aim of this study was to look for HTA reports on e-Health/m-Health technologies and to analyze their transparency, consistency and thoroughness, with the goal to detect areas that need improvement.
METHODS: PubMed, ISI-WOS, and University of York - Centre for Reviews and Dissemination-electronic databases were searched to identify reports on e-Health/m-Health technologies, published up until April 1, 2016. The International Network of Agencies for Health Technology Assessment (INAHTA) checklist was used to evaluate transparency and consistency of included reports. Thoroughness was assessed by checking the presence of domains suggested by the European network for Health Technology Assessment (EUnetHTA) HTA Core Model.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight reports published between 1999 and 2015 were included. Most were delivered by non-European countries (71.4 percent) and only 35.7 percent were classified as full reports. All the HTA reports defined the scope of research whereas more than 80 percent provided author details, summary, discussed findings, and conclusion. On the contrary, policy and research questions were clearly defined in around 30 percent and 50 percent of reports. With respect to the EUnetHTA Core Model, around 70 percent of reports dealt with effectiveness and economic evaluation, more than 50 percent described health problem and approximately 40 percent organizational and social aspects.
CONCLUSIONS: E-Health/m-Health technologies are increasingly present in the field of HTA. Yet, our review identified several missing elements. Most of the reports failed to respond to relevant assessment components, especially ethical, social and organizational implications.
Label Included: 0

Title: Weight management in rural health clinics: The Midwest diet and exercise trial.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: Obesity prevalence is higher in rural compared to urban residents. Rural health clinics offer a potential venue for delivery of weight management. However, traditional programs require travel to attend on-site meetings which is impractical or inconvenient for rural residents. Clinic staff in most rural settings are unlikely to be trained to provide effective weight management. Remote delivery using group phone conferences (GP) or individual phone calls (IP), by staff associated with rural clinics eliminates the need for travel to attend on-site meetings. The effectiveness of these approaches will be the focus of this trial. Staff at five primary care clinics, serving primarily rural residents, will be trained to deliver GP and IP interventions and an enhanced usual care (EUC), (i.e., individual face-to-face meetings (~45 min) at clinic site, four times across 18 mos.). Two hundred overweight/obese adults (BMI ≥ 25.0-45.0 kg/m2, age ≥ 21 yrs.) will be recruited through each clinic and randomized to GP (n = 80), IP (n = 80), or EUC (n = 40) to compare weight loss (0-6 mos.), weight maintenance (7-18 mos.), and weight change during a 6 mo. no contact follow-up (19-24 mos.) between intervention arms. The GP and IP interventions will be identical in lesson plan content, diet, and physical activity. The only difference between groups will be the delivery format (group vs. individual) and session duration (GP ~45 min/session; IP ~15 min/session). Primary (body weight) and secondary outcomes (waist circumference, energy/macronutrient intake, physical activity) will be assessed at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and 24 mos. Cost and contingent valuation analyses will also be completed.
NCT REGISTRATION: NCT02932748.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of telemedicine in the management of infectious diseases.
Abstract: Communication technologies have invaded our daily lives. Several studies have assessed these technologies in the management of infectious diseases (mainly HIV). Weekly short text messages and real-time compliance monitoring assessed in HIV patients are both associated with higher compliance in low-income countries. Virtual consultations to monitor stable chronic HIV patients or tuberculosis treatment in high-income countries appear to be acceptable and efficient. Although assessed in small studies, virtual monitoring seems to reinforce the doctor-patient relationship and the relation between primary care settings and hospitals in various infectious diseases (endocarditis, urinary tract infection, skin and soft tissue infection, HIV, tuberculosis, hepatitis C). A better prevention of infectious diseases (mainly sexually transmitted infections) seems to be observed with telemedicine tools. As fees for teleconsultation or telemonitoring have yet to be defined, the development and evaluation (cost effectiveness) of these tools are difficult. The regulatory framework will need to be improved to encourage such developments, all the while ensuring the confidentiality of data. The development of new tools will require the collaboration of physicians, users, and healthcare systems.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Survey of Home Enteral Nutrition Practices and Reimbursement in the Asia Pacific Region.
Abstract: Literature regarding the use of home enteral nutrition (HEN) and how it is reimbursed in the Asia Pacific region is limited. This research survey aims to determine the availability of HEN, the type of feeds and enteral access used, national reimbursement policies, the presence of nutrition support teams (NSTs), and clinical nutrition education in this region. An electronic questionnaire was sent to 20 clinical nutrition societies and leaders in the Asia Pacific region in August 2017, where thirteen countries responded. Comparison of HEN reimbursement and practice between countries of different income groups based on the World Bank's data was investigated. Financial support for HEN is only available in 40% of the countries. An association was found between availability of financial support for HEN and health expenditure (r = 0.63, p = 0.021). High and middle-upper income countries use mainly commercial supplements for HEN, while lower-middle income countries use mainly blenderized diet. The presence of NSTs is limited, and only present mainly in acute settings. Sixty percent of the countries indicated an urgent need for funding and reimbursement of HEN. This survey demonstrates the varied clinical and economic situation in the Asia Pacific region. There is a lack of reimbursement, clinical support, and inadequate educational opportunities, especially for the lower-middle income countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Benefit Analysis of Telemedicine Systems/Units in Greek Remote Areas.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine units and information technology systems provide special healthcare services to remote populations using telecommunication technology, in order to reduce or even remove the usual and typical face-to-face contact between doctor and patient. This innovative approach to medical care delivery has been expanding for several years and currently covers various medical specialties.
OBJECTIVE: To facilitate installation of telemedicine systems/units in Greek remote areas, this article presents results of a cost-benefit analysis for two Greek islands, Patmos and Leros, using specific economic criteria.
METHODS: Net present value (NPV), internal rate of return (IRR), and payback period were calculated, in order to monetize the economic benefits and the costs savings, estimate the depreciation of each project, and highlight the social benefits.
RESULTS: Costs were reduced (through saved air medical transportations) by €19,005 for Patmos and €78,225 for Leros each year. NPV and IRR were positive; NPV was €29,608 for Patmos and €293,245 for Leros, and IRR was 21.5% for Patmos and 140.5% for Leros. Each project depreciated faster than the 5-year life-cycle period, and specifically in 3.13 years for Patmos and in 0.70 years for Leros.
CONCLUSION: The establishment of telemedicine systems/units in Patmos and Leros was evaluated and assessed positively, with large savings, economical and social, gained by reducing or even removing the face-to-face contact between doctor and patient. Telemedicine systems/units seem to be a promising solution, especially in Greece, where the problem of primary healthcare services in remote/inaccessible areas is of great concern.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using Robots at Home to Support Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Socially assistive robots are being developed for patients to help manage chronic health conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Adherence to medication and availability of rehabilitation are suboptimal in this patient group, which increases the risk of hospitalization.
OBJECTIVE: This pilot study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of a robot delivering telehealth care to increase adherence to medication and home rehabilitation, improve quality of life, and reduce hospital readmission compared with a standard care control group.
METHODS: At discharge from hospital for a COPD admission, 60 patients were randomized to receive a robot at home for 4 months or to a control group. Number of hospitalization days for respiratory admissions over the 4-month study period was the primary outcome. Medication adherence, frequency of rehabilitation exercise, and quality of life were also assessed. Implementation interviews as well as benefit-cost analysis were conducted.
RESULTS: Intention-to-treat and per protocol analyses showed no significant differences in the number of respiratory-related hospitalizations between groups. The intervention group was more adherent to their long-acting inhalers (mean number of prescribed puffs taken per day=48.5%) than the control group (mean 29.5%, P=.03, d=0.68) assessed via electronic recording. Self-reported adherence was also higher in the intervention group after controlling for covariates (P=.04). The intervention group increased their rehabilitation exercise frequency compared with the control group (mean difference -4.53, 95% CI -7.16 to -1.92). There were no significant differences in quality of life. Of the 25 patients who had the robot, 19 had favorable attitudes.
CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study suggests that a homecare robot can improve adherence to medication and increase exercise. Further research is needed with a larger sample size to further investigate effects on hospitalizations after improvements are made to the robots. The robots could be especially useful for patients struggling with adherence.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12615000259549; http://www.anzctr.org.au (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6whIjptLS).
Label Included: 0

Title: Adding value to daily chest X-rays in the ICU through education, restricted daily orders and indication-based prompting.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chest X-rays (CXRs) are traditionally obtained daily in all patients on invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) in the intensive care unit (ICU). We sought to reduce overutilisation of CXRs obtained in the ICU, using a multifaceted intervention to eliminate automated daily studies.
METHODS: We first educated ICU staff about the low diagnostic yield of automated daily CXRs, then removed the 'daily' option from the electronic health records-based ordering system, and added a query (CXR indicated or not indicated) to the ICU daily rounding checklist to prompt a CXR order when clinically warranted. We built a report from billing codes, focusing on all CXRs obtained on IMV census days in the medical (MICU) and surgical (SICU) ICUs, excluding the day of admission and days that a procedure warranting CXR was performed. This generated the number of CXRs obtained every 1000 'included' ventilator days (IVDs), the latter defined as not having an 'absolute' clinical indication for CXR.
RESULTS: The average monthly number of CXRs on an IVD decreased from 919±90 (95% CI 877 to 963) to 330±87 (95% CI 295 to 354) per 1000 IVDs in the MICU, and from 995±69 (95% CI 947 to 1055) to 649±133 (95% CI 593 to 697) in the SICU. This yielded an estimated 1830 to 2066 CXRs avoided over 2 years and an estimated annual savings of $191 600 to $224 200. There was no increase in reported adverse events.
CONCLUSION: ICUs can safely transition to a higher value strategy of indication-based chest imaging by educating staff, eliminating the 'daily' order option and adding a simplified prompt to avoid missing clinically indicated CXRs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating the Effectiveness, Efficiency and Safety of Telemedicine for Urological Care in the Male Prisoner Population.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: We reviewed the safety and effectiveness of our hospital's urologic telemedicine (TM) program that has been utilized for the Iowa prisoner population for over a decade.
METHODS: A retrospective review of TM visits of male prisoners from 2007 to 2014 was performed. Effectiveness of TM visits was assessed by 1) concordance of TM and in-person diagnoses, 2) compliance with radiologic and medication orders and 3) in-person visits saved with TM. Safety was assessed by analyzing the number of patients in which an ED visit was required after TM visit and missed or delayed cases of malignancy. Estimates were then made of the number of patients that could safely be managed with TM alone.
RESULTS: The most common diagnosis was voiding dysfunction (24%) followed by genitourinary pain (23%). Diagnoses were concordant in 90% of patients; compliance was high (radiology 91%, medications 89%); in-person visits were estimated to be saved in 80-94%. No men required peri-TM ED visits and no cases of malignancy were missed in the population that returned for an in-person visit. We estimated that over 50% of urologic complaints in this cohort could have been managed with TM alone.
CONCLUSIONS: TM was shown to be a safe and effective method to provide general urologic care that obviated the initial in-person visits in nearly 90% of patients. It is likely that TM could safely replace in-person visits for many urologic conditions, especially in younger men and those in which access to specialized care may be limited.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine, an Opportunity for Spirometry.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Trauma Surgeons Save Lives-Scribes Save Trauma Surgeons!
Abstract: With the advent of the electronic medical record, the documentation burden of the trauma surgeon has become overwhelming. To help, our trauma division added scribes to the rounding team. We hypothesized that scribe utilization would improve our documentation efficiency and offer a financial benefit to the institution. A review of trauma surgeon documentation and billing was performed at a Level I trauma center over two time periods: January to May 2014 (no scribes) and January to May 2015 (scribes). The number of notes written by trauma surgeons was obtained, as were documentation charges. Documentation efficiency was determined by noting both the hour of the day in which inpatient progress notes were written and the number of notes written after patient discharge. In the 2014 period, a total of 9726 notes were written by trauma attendings. In the 2015 period, 10,933 were written. Despite having 407 fewer trauma patient-days in the 2015 period, the group wrote 343 notes/week versus 298 notes/week (P = 0.008). More inpatient progress notes were written earlier in the working day and fewer were written in the evening. Fewer notes were written after patient discharge (12.7 vs 8.4%). A total of 1,664 hours of scribe time were used over the 5-month period, generating an expense of $32,787. The additional notes generated by scribes resulted in $191,394 in charges. Conservatively, assuming a 20 per cent charge reimbursement, the cost of the scribes was covered. The addition of scribes to the daily trauma rounding team improved note efficiency and increased charge capture at our center.
Label Included: 0

Title: Smartphones in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease: a systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR) and secondary prevention are effective components of evidence-based management for cardiac patients, resulting in improved clinical and behavioural outcomes. Mobile health (mHealth) is a rapidly growing health delivery method that has the potential to enhance CR and heart failure management. We undertook a systematic review to assess the evidence around mHealth interventions for CR and heart failure management for service and patient outcomes, cost effectiveness with a view to how mHealth could be utilized for rural, remote and Indigenous cardiac patients.
METHODS: A comprehensive search of databases using key terms was conducted for the years 2000 to August 2016 to identify randomised and non-randomised trials utilizing smartphone functionality and a model of care that included CR and heart failure management. Included studies were assessed for quality and risk of bias and data extraction was undertaken by two independent reviewers.
RESULTS: Nine studies described a mix of mHealth interventions for CR (5 studies) and heart failure (4 studies) in the following categories: feasibility, utility and uptake studies; and randomised controlled trials. Studies showed that mHealth delivery for CR and heart failure management is feasible with high rates of participant engagement, acceptance, usage, and adherence. Moreover, mHealth delivery of CR was as effective as traditional centre-based CR (TCR) with significant improvement in quality of life. Hospital utilization for heart failure patients showed inconsistent reductions. There was limited inclusion of rural participants.
CONCLUSION: Mobile health delivery has the potential to improve access to CR and heart failure management for patients unable to attend TCR programs. Feasibility testing of culturally appropriate mHealth delivery for CR and heart failure management is required in rural and remote settings with subsequent implementation and evaluation into local health care services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost evaluation of providing evidence-based dietetic services for weight management in adults: In-person versus eHealth delivery.
Abstract: AIM: To compare the theoretical costs of best-practice weight management delivered by dietitians in a traditional, in-person setting compared to remote consultations delivered using eHealth technologies.
METHODS: Using national guidelines, a framework was developed outlining dietitian-delivered weight management for in-person and eHealth delivery modes. This framework mapped one-on-one patient-dietitian consultations for an adult requiring active management (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2 ) over a one-year period using both delivery modes. Resources required for both the dietitian and patient to implement each treatment mode were identified, with costs attributed for material, fixed, travel and personnel components. The resource costs were categorised as either establishment or recurring costs associated with the treatment of one patient.
RESULTS: Establishment costs were higher for eHealth compared to in-person costs ($1394.21 vs $90.05). Excluding establishment costs, the total (combined dietitian and patient) cost for one patient receiving best-practice weight management for 12 months was $560.59 for in-person delivery, compared to $389.78 for eHealth delivery. Compared to the eHealth mode, a higher proportion of the overall recurring delivery costs was attributed to the patient for the in-person mode (46.4% and 33.9%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Although it is initially more expensive to establish an eHealth service mode, the overall reoccurring costs per patient for delivery of best-practice weight management were lower compared to the in-person mode. This theoretical cost evaluation establishes preliminary evidence to support alternative obesity management service models using eHealth technologies. Further research is required to determine the feasibility, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of these models within dietetic practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Randomised controlled trial protocol (GRIP study): examining the effect of involvement of a general practitioner and home care oncology nurse after a cancer diagnosis on patient reported outcomes and healthcare utilization.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Due to the ageing population and improving diagnostics and treatments, the number of cancer patients and cancer survivors is increasing. Policymakers, patients and professionals advocate a transfer of (part of) cancer care from the hospital environment to the primary care setting, as this could stimulate personalized and integrated care, increase cost-effectiveness and would better meet the patients' needs and expectations. The effects of structured active follow-up from primary care after cancer diagnosis have not been studied yet. Therefore the GRIP study aims to assess the effects of structured follow-up after a cancer diagnosis, by a primary care team including a general practitioner (GP) and a home care oncology nurse (HON), on satisfaction and healthcare utilization of patients treated with curative intent.
METHODS: We will conduct a multicentre, two-arm randomised controlled trial in The Netherlands. We plan to include 150 patients who will be treated with curative intent for either breast, lung, colorectal, gynaecologic cancer, or melanoma. Further inclusion criteria are: age 18 years and older, able to answer questionnaires in Dutch, GP agrees to participate and the possibility to include the patient before the start of treatment. All patients receive care as usual. The intervention arm will receive additional structured follow-up consisting of a GP consultation before onset of treatment to empower the patient for shared decision making with the specialist and a minimum of three contacts with the HON during and after treatment. Primary outcomes are: patient satisfaction with care at the level of specialist, GP and nurse and healthcare utilization. Secondary outcomes include: quality of life, employment status, patient empowerment, shared decision making, mental health and satisfaction with given information. Repeated questionnaires, filled in by the participants, will be assessed within the 1-year study period.
DISCUSSION: This randomised controlled trial will evaluate the effects of structured follow-up after a cancer diagnosis by a primary care team including a GP and HON, for patients undergoing treatment with curative intent. Results from the present study may provide the evidence needed to optimally rearrange responsibilities in cancer care delivery and consequently improve cancer care and patient related outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Trial number: NTR5909 .
Label Included: 0

Title: The value of WhatsApp communication in paediatric burn care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine is increasingly applied in developed settings to facilitate transfer of information to and from burn surgeons across vast geographic areas. WhatsApp is a widely available and extremely user-friendly encrypted smartphone application that does not require the expensive physical and personnel infrastructure that characterizes many of these telemedicine systems. The aim of this study was to review the use of WhatsApp to facilitate paediatric burn injury consultations to a regional burn centre in a developing country, where burn care continues to be thwarted by administrative apathy, poor resource allocation and lack of attention to medical and nursing education at all levels.
METHODS: A retrospective review was undertaken of all consultations using WhatsApp over an 18-month period, received by the burn centre's two senior medical practitioners. The specific origin and nature of the telemedicine requests for advice, transfer or follow-up were collected, as were data relating to the demographics of the patients, the aetiology, mechanism and extent of the burn injury. The impact of the system of communication in terms of reductions in admissions and clinic visits was assessed, and a cost analysis was undertaken. Feedback was also obtained from those health practitioners regularly using the service.
RESULTS: 838 communications occurred during the study period, which included 1562 distinct clinical queries. 486 interactions (58%) originated from within the hospital, the majority of which were initiated by surgeons in training or burn nurse practitioners. 352 (42%) consultations were from outside the hospital. Queries related to the full spectrum of burn care, including emergency management and stabilization, triage and transfer, the need for escharotomy, fluid resuscitation, wound care, the timing and nature of surgical intervention, as well as follow-up and rehabilitation. While no significant changes in the number of surgical interventions or admissions were observed when compared to the five years prior to the intervention, outpatient visits reduced significantly during the study period. It was estimated that over 150 unnecessary admissions were also avoided as a result of the triage made possible by WhatsApp, which translated into considerable cost saving for the institution.
DISCUSSION: Incorporating WhatsApp technology into the daily processes of burn care has significantly improved the quality of paediatric burn care referrals to specialist burn services. Specifically, WhatsApp has contributed to reductions in unnecessary referrals and outpatient visits, facilitated opportunities for continuing medical education, improved the care of major burn injuries through more effective prehospital communication, and enabled greater allocation of scarce specialist resources at the burn centre. This study motivates for the wider application of WhatsApp for burn care referrals, especially in developing countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: A systematic review of economic evaluations on stent-retriever thrombectomy for acute ischemic stroke.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Our objective was to review economic evaluations on stent-retriever thrombectomy (SRT) added/not added to intravenous (IV) tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) due to large-vessel occlusion (LVO).
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review using several electronic databases and searching for studies published from January 2009 to September 2017.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: any publication type reporting the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of SRT in people with AIS secondary to LVO. Quality assessment was undertaken with the CHEERS and the Philips' checklists.
RESULTS: Eight original articles (four from North America/four from Europe) were included; of these, seven were model-based cost-effectiveness studies and one was a study conducted alongside a clinical trial. The perspective was the healthcare system in seven studies, and societal in one. The time horizon was lifetime (minimum 20 years) in all but two studies where it was 1 and 5 years. Overall, studies were rated of good quality (mean score 79%; range 70-90). Data sources, effectiveness outcomes and other input parameters were heterogeneous across studies. In three studies, SRT was dominant (less expensive and more effective). In five studies, SRT was more expensive and generated more quality-adjusted life years but had a high probability (79-100%) to be cost-effective at conventional thresholds.
CONCLUSION: This review shows that SRT added/not added to IV t-PA is likely to be cost-effective or even dominant, which is consistent with the opinion from several Health Technology Assessment bodies recommending SRT. However, our findings are supported by primary studies with substantial methodological heterogeneity.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility and Usability of Tele-interview for Medical Residency Interview.
Abstract: Every year in the United States, medical students and residency programs dedicate millions of dollars to the residency matching process. On-site interviews for training positions involve tremendous financial investment, and time spent detracts from educational pursuits and clinical responsibilities. Students are usually required to fund their own travel and accommodations, adding additional financial burdens to an already costly medical education. Similarly, residency programs allocate considerable funds to interview-day meals, tours, staffing, and social events. With the rapid onslaught of innovations and advancements in the field of telecommunication, technology has become ubiquitous in the practice of medicine. Internet applications have aided our ability to deliver appropriate, evidence-based care at speeds previously unimagined. Wearable medical tech allows physicians to monitor patients from afar, and telemedicine has emerged as an economical means by which to provide care to all corners of the world. It is against this backdrop that we consider the integration of technology into the residency application process. This article aims to assess the implementation of technology in the form of web-based interviewing as a viable means by which to reduce the costs and productivity losses associated with traditional in-person interview days.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects of automated smartphone mobile recovery support and telephone continuing care in the treatment of alcohol use disorder: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: New smartphone communication technology provides a novel way to provide personalized continuing care support following alcohol treatment. One such system is the Addiction version of the Comprehensive Health Enhancement Support System (A-CHESS), which provides a range of automated functions that support patients. A-CHESS improved drinking outcomes over standard continuing care when provided to patients leaving inpatient treatment. Effective continuing care can also be delivered via telephone calls with a counselor. Telephone Monitoring and Counseling (TMC) has demonstrated efficacy in two randomized trials with alcohol-dependent patients. A-CHESS and TMC have complementary strengths. A-CHESS provides automated 24/7 recovery support services and frequent assessment of symptoms and status, but does not involve regular contact with a counselor. TMC provides regular and sustained contact with the same counselor, but no ongoing support between calls. The future of continuing care for alcohol use disorders is likely to involve automated mobile technology and counselor contact, but little is known about how best to integrate these services.
METHODS/DESIGN: To address this question, the study will feature a 2 × 2 design (A-CHESS for 12 months [yes/no] × TMC for 12 months [yes/no]), in which 280 alcohol-dependent patients in intensive outpatient programs (IOPs) will be randomized to one of the four conditions and followed for 18 months. We will determine whether adding TMC to A-CHESS produces fewer heavy drinking days than TMC or A-CHESS alone and test for TMC and A-CHESS main effects. We will determine the costs of each of the four conditions and the incremental cost-effectiveness of the three active conditions. Analyses will also examine secondary outcomes, including a biological measure of alcohol use, and hypothesized moderation and mediation effects.
DISCUSSION: The results of the study will yield important information on improving patient alcohol use outcomes by integrating mobile automated recovery support and counselor contact.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02681406 . Registered on 2 September 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Diabetic Retinopathy in the Asia-Pacific.
Abstract: Diabetic retinopathy (DR), the most common complication of diabetes mellitus, is the leading cause of new cases of blindness in middle-aged and elderly in the Asia-Pacific. It has been estimated that 51% of all those with blindness due to DR globally (n = 424,400) and 56% of those with visual impairment due to DR (2.1 million) come from the Asia-Pacific. Prevalence of DR among those with diabetes ranged from 10% in India to 43% in Indonesia within the Asia-Pacific. Awareness of DR among persons with diabetes ranged from 28% to 84%. Most common modifiable risk factors for DR in the Asia-Pacific were hyperglycemia, blood pressure, dyslipidemia, and obesity. Implementation of systematic screening programs for DR and advancement in telemedicine screening methods have increased patient coverage and cost-effectiveness, though there are still numerous factors impeding screening uptake in the low-middle income regions of the Asia-Pacific. Management and treatment of DR in the Asia-Pacific is mainly limited to traditional laser retinopexy, but it is suboptimal despite new clinical approaches such as use of intravitreal anti.vascular endothelial growth factor and steroids due to limited resources. Further research and data are required to structure a more cost-effective public healthcare program and more awareness-building initiatives to increase the effectiveness of DR screening programs.
Label Included: 0

Title: TEXT messages to improve MEDication adherence and Secondary prevention (TEXTMEDS) after acute coronary syndrome: a randomised clinical trial protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Identifying simple, low-cost and scalable means of supporting lifestyle change and medication adherence for patients following a cardiovascular (CV) event is important.
OBJECTIVE: The TEXTMEDS (TEXT messages to improve MEDication adherence and Secondary prevention) study aims to investigate whether a cardiac education and support programme sent via mobile phone text message improves medication adherence and risk factor levels in patients following an acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
STUDY DESIGN: A single-blind, multicentre, randomised clinical trial of 1400 patients after an ACS with 12 months follow-up. The intervention group will receive multiple weekly text messages that provide information, motivation, support to adhere to medications, quit smoking (if relevant) and recommendations for healthy diet and exercise. The primary endpoint is the percentage of patients who are adherent to cardioprotective medications and the key secondary outcomes are mean systolic blood pressure (BP) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Secondary outcomes will also include total cholesterol, mean diastolic BP, the percentage of participants who are adherent to each cardioprotective medication class, the percentage of participants who achieve target levels of CV risk factors, major vascular events, hospital readmissions and all-cause mortality. The study will be augmented by formal economic and process evaluations to assess acceptability, utility and cost-effectiveness.
SUMMARY: The study will provide multicentre randomised trial evidence of the effects of a text message-based programme on cardioprotective medication adherence and levels of CV risk factors.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Primary ethics approval was received from Western Sydney Local Health District Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC2012/12/4.1 (3648) AU RED HREC/13/WMEAD/15). Results will be disseminated via peer-reviewed publications and presentations at international conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ACTRN12613000793718; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Centre- versus home-based exercise among people with mci and mild dementia: study protocol for a randomized parallel-group trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Worldwide, almost 50million people lived with dementia in 2016. A cure or disease modifying pharmaceutical treatment for dementia remains elusive so alternative therapies are of critical importance. Mounting evidence supports exercise in the prevention and therapy of dementia. However, the cognitive, physical, and psychological challenges common to dementia along with a poor understanding and accommodation of dementia in the community are major barriers to exercise. Consequently, effective delivery options need to be identified. The primary objective of this study is to compare the effectiveness of center-based (CB) exercise versus home-based (HB) exercise for achievement of physical activity guidelines among people with MCI or mild dementia.
METHODS: This is a randomized parallel-group trial comparing the effects of CB and HB exercise adherence among community-dwelling adults ≥50 years with a clinical diagnosis of MCI or mild dementia. Participants will be randomized to either CB or HB exercise. The CB group will meet weekly for small group exercise and will be prescribed additional exercise to be completed independently. Participants in the HB group will be given a physical activity prescription to be completed independently in the community. Participants in HB will also be contacted by phone monthly to adjust exercise prescriptions. The primary outcome will be achievement of exercise guidelines (150 min/wk. of moderate activity) assessed using an activity monitor. Secondary objectives will evaluate cost-effectiveness and the influence of individual and environmental factors on the primary outcome. Tertiary outcomes include physical function, cognition, mood, and quality of life.
DISCUSSION: There is scant research to indicate the most effective way to deliver exercise to people with MCI and mild dementia, which is needed specifically because these groups face significant barriers to exercise. To capitalize on the benefits of exercise, feasible exercise delivery options need to be identified. The results of this study will directly complement ongoing clinical trials and will be essential to implementing exercise recommendations specific to the prevention and therapy of dementia in a feasible and cost-effective manner when they emerge.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicatrials.gov ; Identifier: NCT02774720 (version updated December 12, 2016).
Label Included: 0

Title: Retinopathy of prematurity: the high cost of screening regional and remote infants.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Demand for retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) screening is increasing for infants born at rural and regional hospitals where the service is not generally available. The health system cost for screening regional/remote infants has not been reported.
BACKGROUND: The objective of this study is to evaluate the cost of ROP screening at a large centralized tertiary neonatal service for infants from regional/rural hospitals.
DESIGN: This is a retrospective study to establish the cost of transferring regional/rural infants to the Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital for ROP screening over a 28-month period.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 131 infants were included in this study.
METHODS: Individual infant costs were calculated from analysis of clinical and administrative records.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Economic cost of ROP screening for all transfers from regional/rural hospitals to Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital.
RESULTS: The average economic cost of ROP screening for this cohort was AUD$5110 per infant screened and the total cost was AUD$669 413. The average cost per infant screened was highest for infants from a regional centre with a population of 75 000 (AUD$14 856 per child), which was also geographically furthest from Brisbane. No infant in this cohort transferred from a regional nursery reached criteria for intervention for ROP by standard guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Health system costs for ROP screening of remote infants at a centralized hospital are high. Alternative strategies using telemedicine can now be compared with centralized screening.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Assessing the benefits of digital health solutions in the societal reimbursement context].
Abstract: For a number of reasons, achieving reimbursability for digital health products has so far proven difficult. Demonstrating the benefits of the technology is the main hurdle in this context. The generally accepted evaluation processes, especially parallel group comparisons in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) for (clinical) benefit assessment, are primarily intended to deal with questions of (added) medical benefit. In contrast to drugs or classical medical devices, users of digital health solutions often profit from gaining autonomy, increased awareness and mindfulness, better transparency in the provision of care, and improved comfort, although there are also digital solutions with an interventional character targeting clinical outcomes (e. g. for indications such as anorexia, depression). Commonly accepted methods for evaluating (clinical) benefits primarily rely on medical outcomes, such as morbidity and mortality, but do not adequately consider additional benefits unique to digital health. The challenge is therefore to develop evaluation designs that respect the particularities of digital health without reducing the validity of the evaluations (especially with respect to safety). There is an increasing need for concepts that include both continuous feedback loops for adapting and improving an application while at the same time generate sufficient evidence for complex benefit assessments. This approach may help improve risk benefit ratio assessments of digital health when it comes to implementing digital innovations in healthcare.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparing different technologies for active TB case-finding among the homeless: a transmission-dynamic modelling study.
Abstract: Homeless persons have elevated risk of tuberculosis (TB) and are under-served by conventional health services. Approaches to active case-finding (ACF) and treatment tailored to their needs are required. A transmission-dynamic model was developed to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of screening with mobile Chest X-ray, GeneXpert, or both. Effectiveness of ACF depends upon the prevalence of infection in the population (which determines screening 'yield'), patient willingness to wait for GeneXpert results, and treatment adherence. ACF is efficient when TB prevalence exceeds 78/100,000 and 46% of drug sensitive TB cases and 33% of multi-drug resistant TB cases complete treatment. This threshold increases to 92/100,000 if additional post-ACF enhanced case management (ECM) increases treatment completion to 85%. Generally, the most efficient option is one-step screening of all patients with GeneXpert, but if too many patients (>27% without ECM, >19% with ECM) are unwilling to wait the 90 minutes required then two-step screening using chest X-ray (which is rapid) followed by GeneXpert for confirmation of TB is the most efficient option. Targeted ACF and support services benefit health through early successful treatment and averting TB transmission and disease. The optimal strategy is setting-specific, requiring careful consideration of patients' needs regarding testing and treatment.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of an internet-based perioperative care programme to enhance postoperative recovery in gynaecological patients: economic evaluation alongside a stepped-wedge cluster-randomised trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of an internet-based perioperative care programme compared with usual care for gynaecological patients.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation from a societal perspective alongside a stepped-wedge cluster-randomised controlled trial with 12 months of follow-up.
SETTING: Secondary care, nine hospitals in the Netherlands, 2011-2014.
PARTICIPANTS: 433 employed women aged 18-65 years scheduled for a hysterectomy and/or laparoscopic adnexal surgery.
INTERVENTION: The intervention comprised an internet-based care programme aimed at improving convalescence and preventing delayed return to work (RTW) following gynaecological surgery and was sequentially rolled out. Depending on the implementation phase of their hospital, patients were allocated to usual care (n=206) or to the intervention (n=227).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was duration until full sustainable RTW. Secondary outcomes were quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), health-related quality of life and recovery.
RESULTS: At 12 months, there were no statistically significant differences in total societal costs (€-647; 95% CI €-2116 to €753) and duration until RTW (-4.1; 95% CI -10.8 to 2.6) between groups. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for RTW was 56; each day earlier RTW in the intervention group was associated with cost savings of €56 compared with usual care. The probability of the intervention being cost-effective was 0.79 at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) of €0 per day earlier RTW, which increased to 0.97 at a WTP of €76 per day earlier RTW. The difference in QALYs gained over 12 months between the groups was clinically irrelevant resulting in a low probability of cost-effectiveness for QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering that on average the costs of a day of sickness absence are €230, the care programme is considered cost-effective in comparison with usual care for duration until sustainable RTW after gynaecological surgery for benign disease. Future research should indicate whether widespread implementation of this care programme has the potential to reduce societal costs associated with gynaecological surgery.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NTR2933; Results.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Universal Noninvasive Continuous Blood Pressure Measurement System for Remote Healthcare Monitoring.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of any remote healthcare monitoring system depends on how much accurate, patient-friendly, versatile, and cost-effective measurement it is delivering. There has always been a huge demand for such a long-term noninvasive remote blood pressure (BP) measurement system, which could be used worldwide in the remote healthcare industry. Thus, noninvasive continuous BP measurement and remote monitoring have become an emerging area in the remote healthcare industry.
INTRODUCTION: Photoplethysmography-based (PPG) BP measurement is a continuous, unobtrusive, patient-friendly, and cost-effective solution. However, BP measurements through PPG sensors are not much reliable and accurate due to some major limitations like pressure disturbance, motion artifacts, and variations in human skin tone.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A novel reflective PPG sensor has been developed to eliminate the abovementioned pressure disturbance and motion artifacts during the BP measurement. Considering the variations of the human skin tone across demography, a novel algorithm has been developed to make the BP measurement accurate and reliable. The training dataset captured 186 subjects' data and the trial dataset captured another new 102 subjects' data.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The overall accuracy achieved by using the proposed method is nearly 98%. Thus, demonstrating the efficacy of the proposed method.
CONCLUSIONS: The developed BP monitoring system is quite accurate, reliable, cost-effective, handy, and user friendly. It is also expected that this system would be quite useful to monitor the BP of infants, elderly people, patients having wounds, burn injury, or in the intensive care unit environment.
Label Included: 0

Title: Store and forward Teledermatology - the Newport way.
Abstract: Teledermatology plays a vital role within Aneurin Bevan University Health Board. Alongside Consultant Dermatologists we developed Teledermatology to meet clinical needs. This article illustrates the implementation process of the service, highlighting legal and ethical issues that were considered along with the success and scope of the service. The Teledermatology service rapidly reduced waiting times for patients and increased access to specialist care which is cost effective for the Health Board. Following successful implementation and increased demand, there is the scope for expansion. The service is developing additional Teledermatology clinics within the Health Board, evolving telemedicine.
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost-effectiveness analysis of cardiology eConsults for Medicaid patients.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of electronic consultations (eConsults) for cardiology compared with traditional face-to-face consults.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis for a subset of Medicaid-insured patients in a cluster-randomized trial of eConsults versus the traditional face-to-face consultation process in a statewide federally qualified health center.
METHODS: A total of 369 Medicaid patients were referred for cardiology consultations by primary care providers who were randomly assigned to use either eConsults or their usual face-to-face referral process. Primary care providers in the eConsult arm transmitted consults to cardiologists using a secure peer-to-peer communication platform in an electronic health record. Intention-to-treat analysis was used to assess the total cost of care and cost across 7 categories: inpatient, outpatient, emergency department, pharmacy, labs, cardiac procedures, and "all other." Costs are from the payer's perspective.
RESULTS: Six months after the cardiology consult, patients in the eConsult group had significantly lower mean unadjusted total costs by $655 per patient, or lower mean costs by $466 per patient when adjusted for non-normality, compared with those in the face-to-face arm. The eConsult group had a significantly lower cost by $81 per patient in the outpatient cardiac procedures category.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that eConsults are associated with total cost savings to payers due principally to reductions in the cost of cardiac outpatient procedures.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects of Telestroke on Thrombolysis Times and Outcomes: A Meta-analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Telestroke systems are tools, used to provide an advanced stroke care in regions without sufficient neurologic services. We performed this meta-analysis to assess the effects of telemedicine on treatment times and clinical outcomes of acute stroke care.
METHODS: A literature search of PubMed, SCOPUS, and Cochrane CENTRAL was conducted for original studies investigating telemedicine applications in acute stroke care. Dichotomous data on treatment outcomes were pooled as odds ratios (ORs), while continuous data on thrombolysis times were pooled as mean differences (MDs) with 95% confidence interval (CI), using RevMan software (version 5.3).
RESULTS: Pooling data from 26 studies (6605 thrombolysed patients) showed no significant differences between the telestroke and control groups in terms of in-hospital mortality (OR = 1.21, 95% CI [0.98, 1.49]), 90-day mortality (OR = 1.08, 95% CI [0.85, 1.37]), symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (sICH) (OR = 1.10, 95% CI [0.79, 1.53]), and favorable clinical outcome at discharge (OR = 1.03, 95% CI [0.69, 1.53]) and 90 days later (OR = 0.99, 95% CI [0.82, 1.18]). The onset-to-door (OTD) duration (MD = -10.4 minutes, 95% CI [-14.79, -.01]) and length of hospital stay (MD = -0.55 days, 95% CI [-1.02, -0.07]) were significantly shorter in the telestroke group, compared to the control group. Although the overall effect estimate (under the fixed-effect model) showed a significant decrease in the onset-to-treatment (OTT) duration in the telestroke group (MD = -5.83 minutes, 95% CI [-8.57, -3.09]), employing the random-effects model for between-study heterogeneity abolished this significance (MD = -5.90 minutes, 95% CI [-13.23, 1.42]).
CONCLUSION: Telestroke significantly reduced OTD and hospital stay durations in stroke patients without increasing the risk of mortality or sICH. Therefore, telemedicine can improve stroke care in regional areas with minor experience in thrombolysis. Further randomized controlled trials are needed to assess the benefits of telestroke systems, especially in terms of cost-effectiveness and quality of life outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Analyzing recommender systems for health promotion using a multidisciplinary taxonomy: A scoping review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Recommender systems are information retrieval systems that provide users with relevant items (e.g., through messages). Despite their extensive use in the e-commerce and leisure domains, their application in healthcare is still in its infancy. These systems may be used to create tailored health interventions, thus reducing the cost of healthcare and fostering a healthier lifestyle in the population.
OBJECTIVE: This paper identifies, categorizes, and analyzes the existing knowledge in terms of the literature published over the past 10 years on the use of health recommender systems for patient interventions. The aim of this study is to understand the scientific evidence generated about health recommender systems, to identify any gaps in this field to achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 3 (SDG3) (namely, "Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages"), and to suggest possible reasons for these gaps as well as to propose some solutions.
METHODS: We conducted a scoping review, which consisted of a keyword search of the literature related to health recommender systems for patients in the following databases: ScienceDirect, PsycInfo, Association for Computing Machinery, IEEExplore, and Pubmed. Further, we limited our search to consider only English-language journal articles published in the last 10 years. The reviewing process comprised three researchers who filtered the results simultaneously. The quantitative synthesis was conducted in parallel by two researchers, who classified each paper in terms of four aspects-the domain, the methodological and procedural aspects, the health promotion theoretical factors and behavior change theories, and the technical aspects-using a new multidisciplinary taxonomy.
RESULTS: Nineteen papers met the inclusion criteria and were included in the data analysis, for which thirty-three features were assessed. The nine features associated with the health promotion theoretical factors and behavior change theories were not observed in any of the selected studies, did not use principles of tailoring, and did not assess (cost)-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: Health recommender systems may be further improved by using relevant behavior change strategies and by implementing essential characteristics of tailored interventions. In addition, many of the features required to assess each of the domain aspects, the methodological and procedural aspects, and technical aspects were not reported in the studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The studies analyzed presented few evidence in support of the positive effects of using health recommender systems in terms of cost-effectiveness and patient health outcomes. This is why future studies should ensure that all the proposed features are covered in our multidisciplinary taxonomy, including integration with electronic health records and the incorporation of health promotion theoretical factors and behavior change theories. This will render those studies more useful for policymakers since they will cover all aspects needed to determine their impact toward meeting SDG3.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost effectiveness of guided Internet-based interventions for depression in comparison with control conditions: An individual-participant data meta-analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is limited evidence on the cost effectiveness of Internet-based treatments for depression. The aim was to evaluate the cost effectiveness of guided Internet-based interventions for depression compared to controls.
METHODS: Individual-participant data from five randomized controlled trials (RCT), including 1,426 participants, were combined. Cost-effectiveness analyses were conducted at 8 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months follow-up.
RESULTS: The guided Internet-based interventions were more costly than the controls, but not statistically significant (12 months mean difference = €406, 95% CI: - 611 to 1,444). The mean differences in clinical effects were not statistically significant (12 months mean difference = 1.75, 95% CI: - .09 to 3.60 in Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale [CES-D] score, .06, 95% CI: - .02 to .13 in response rate, and .00, 95% CI: - .03 to .03 in quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]). Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves indicated that high investments are needed to reach an acceptable probability that the intervention is cost effective compared to control for CES-D and response to treatment (e.g., at 12-month follow-up the probability of being cost effective was .95 at a ceiling ratio of 2,000 €/point of improvement in CES-D score). For QALYs, the intervention's probability of being cost effective compared to control was low at the commonly accepted willingness-to-pay threshold (e.g., at 12-month follow-up the probability was .29 and. 31 at a ceiling ratio of 24,000 and 35,000 €/QALY, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the present findings, guided Internet-based interventions for depression are not considered cost effective compared to controls. However, only a minority of RCTs investigating the clinical effectiveness of guided Internet-based interventions also assessed cost effectiveness and were included in this individual-participant data meta-analysis.
Label Included: 0

Title: What is in your wallet? A cluster randomized trial of the effects of showing comparative patient out-of-pocket costs on primary care prescribing for uncomplicated hypertension.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Drug expenditures are responsible for an increasing proportion of health costs, accounting for $1.1 trillion in annual expenditure worldwide. As hundreds of billions of dollars are being spent each year on overtreatment with prescribed medications that are either unnecessary or are in excess of lowest cost-effective therapy, programs are needed that optimize fiscally appropriate use. We evaluated whether providing physicians with information on the patient out-of-pocket payment consequences of prescribing decisions that were in excess of lowest cost-effective therapy would alter prescribing decisions using the treatment of uncomplicated hypertension as an exemplar.
METHODS: A single-blind cluster randomized trial was conducted over a 60-month follow-up period in 76 primary care physicians in Quebec, Canada, and their patients with uncomplicated hypertension who were using the MOXXI integrated electronic health record for drug and health problem management. Physicians were randomized to an out-of-pocket expenditure module that provided alerts for comparative out-of-payment costs, thiazide diuretics as recommended first-line therapy, and tools to monitor blood pressure targets and medication compliance, or alternatively the basic MOXXI system. System software and prescription claims were used to analyze the impact of the intervention on treatment choice, adherence, and overall and out-of-pocket payment costs using generalized estimating equations.
RESULTS: Three thousand five-hundred ninety-two eligible patients with uncomplicated hypertension were enrolled, of whom 1261 (35.1%) were newly started (incident patient) on treatment during follow-up. There was a statistically significant increase in the prescription of diuretics in the newly treated intervention (26.6%) compared to control patients (19.8%) (RR 1.65, 95% CI 1.17 to 2.33). For patients already treated (prevalent patient), there was a statistically significant interaction between the intervention and patient age, with older patients being less likely to be switched to a diuretic. Among the incident patients, physicians with less than 15 years of experience were much more likely to prescribe a diuretic (OR 10.69; 95% CI 1.49 to 76.64) than physicians with 15 to 25 years (OR 0.67; 95%CI 0.25 to 1.78), or more than 25 years of experience (OR 1.80; 95% CI 1.23 to 2.65). There was no statistically significant effect of the intervention on adherence or out-of-pocket payment cost.
CONCLUSIONS: The provision of comparative information on patient out-of-pocket payments for treatment of uncomplicated hypertension had a statistically significant impact on increasing the initiation of diuretics in incident patients and switching to diuretics in younger prevalent patients. The impact of interventions to improve the cost-effectiveness of prescribing may be enhanced by also targeting patients with tools to participate in treatment decision-making and by providing physicians with comparative out-of-pocket information on all evidence-based alternatives that would enhance clinical decision-making.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN96253624.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Access to Critical Cerebral Emergency Support Services (ACCESS): a neuro-emergent telemedicine consultation program.
Abstract: AIMS: Access to Critical Cerebral Emergency Support Services (ACCESS) was developed as a low-cost solution to providing neuro-emergent consultations to rural hospitals in New Mexico that do not offer comprehensive stroke care. ACCESS is a two-way audio-visual program linking remote emergency department physicians and their patients to stroke specialists. ACCESS also has an education component in which hospitals receive training from stroke specialists on the triage and treatment of patients. This study assessed the clinical and economic outcomes of the ACCESS program in providing services to rural New Mexico from a healthcare payer perspective.
METHODS: A decision tree model was constructed using findings from the ACCESS program and existing literature, the likelihood that a patient will receive a tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), cost of care, and resulting quality adjusted life years (QALYs). Data from the ACCESS program includes emergency room patients in rural New Mexico from May 2015 to August 2016. Outcomes and costs have been estimated for patients who were taken to a hospital providing neurological telecare and patients who were not.
RESULTS: The use of ACCESS decreased neuro-emergent stroke patient transfers from rural hospitals to urban settings from 85% to 5% (no tPA) and 90% to 23% (tPA), while stroke specialist reading of patient CT/MRI imaging within 3 h of onset of stroke symptoms increased from 2% to 22%. Results indicate that use of ACCESS has the potential to save $4,241 ($3,952-$4,438) per patient and increase QALYs by 0.20 (0.14-0.22). This increase in QALYs equates to ∼73 more days of life at full health. The cost savings and QALYs are expected to increase when moving from a 90-day model to a lifetime model.
CONCLUSION: The analysis demonstrates potential savings and improved quality-of-life associated with the use of ACCESS for patients presenting to rural hospitals with acute ischemic stroke (AIS).
Label Included: 1

Title: Home versus in-patient treatment for deep vein thrombosis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) occurs when a blood clot blocks blood flow through a vein, which can occur after surgery, after trauma, or when a person has been immobile for a long time. Clots can dislodge and block blood flow to the lungs (pulmonary embolism (PE)), causing death. DVT and PE are known by the term venous thromboembolism (VTE). Heparin (in the form of unfractionated heparin (UFH)) is a blood-thinning drug used during the first three to five days of DVT treatment. Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) allow people with DVT to receive their initial treatment at home instead of in hospital. This is an update of a review first published in 2001 and updated in 2007.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the incidence and complications of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients treated at home versus patients treated with standard in-patient hospital regimens. Secondary objectives included assessment of patient satisfaction and cost-effectiveness of treatment.
SEARCH METHODS: For this update, the Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register (last searched 16 March 2017), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2017, Issue 2), and trials registries. We also checked the reference lists of relevant publications.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) examining home versus hospital treatment for DVT, in which DVT was clinically confirmed and was treated with LMWHs or UFH.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: One review author selected material for inclusion, and another reviewed the selection of trials. Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed included studies for risk of bias. Primary outcomes included combined VTE events (PE and recurrent DVT), gangrene, heparin complications, and death. Secondary outcomes were patient satisfaction and cost implications. We performed meta-analysis using fixed-effect models with risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for dichotomous data.
MAIN RESULTS: We included in this review seven RCTs involving 1839 randomised participants with comparable treatment arms. All seven had fundamental problems including high exclusion rates, partial hospital treatment of many in the home treatment arms, and comparison of UFH in hospital versus LMWH at home. These trials showed that patients treated at home with LMWH were less likely to have recurrence of VTE events than those given hospital treatment with UFH or LMWH (fixed-effect risk ratio (RR) 0.58, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.39 to 0.86; 6 studies; 1708 participants; P = 0.007; low-quality evidence). No clear difference was seen between groups for major bleeding (RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.33 to 1.36; 6 studies; 1708 participants; P = 0.27; low-quality evidence), minor bleeding (RR 1.29, 95% CI 0.94 to 1.78; 6 studies; 1708 participants; P = 0.11; low-quality evidence), or mortality (RR 0.69, 95% CI 0.44 to 1.09; 6 studies; 1708 participants; P = 0.11; low-quality evidence). The included studies reported no cases of venous gangrene. We could not combine patient satisfaction and quality of life outcomes in meta-analysis owing to heterogeneity of reporting, but two of three studies found evidence that home treatment led to greater improvement in quality of life compared with in-patient treatment at some point during follow-up, and the third study reported that a large number of participants chose to switch from in-patient care to home-based care for social and personal reasons, suggesting it is the patient's preferred option (very low-quality evidence). None of the studies included in this review carried out a full cost-effectiveness analysis. However, a small randomised economic evaluation of the two alternative treatment settings involving 131 participants found that direct costs were higher for those in the in-patient group. These findings were supported by three other studies that reported on their costs (very low-quality evidence).Quality of evidence for data from meta-analyses was low to very low. This was due to risk of bias, as many of the included studies used unclear randomisation techniques, and blinding was a concern for many. Also, indirectness was a concern, as most studies included a large number of participants randomised to the home (LMWH) treatment group who were treated in hospital for some or all of the treatment period. A further issue for some outcomes was heterogeneity that was evident in measurement and reporting of outcomes.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Low-quality evidence suggests that patients treated at home with LMWH are less likely to have recurrence of VTE than those treated in hospital. However, data show no clear differences in major or minor bleeding, nor in mortality (low-quality evidence), indicating that home treatment is no worse than in-patient treatment for these outcomes. Because most healthcare systems are moving towards more LMWH usage in the home setting it is unlikely that additional large trials will be undertaken to compare these treatments. Therefore, home treatment is likely to become the norm, and further research will be directed towards resolving practical issues by devising local guidelines that include clinical prediction rules, developing biomarkers and imaging that can be used to tailor therapy to disease severity, and providing training for community healthcare workers who administer treatment and monitor treatment progress.
Label Included: 0

Title: Diagnosis of cognitive decline and dementia in rural areas - A scoping review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Due to the demographic change, the global prevalence of dementia will continually rise. Barriers to diagnosis and care are still high. But timely diagnosis is associated with valuable benefits and can promote timely and optimal management. Receiving an early diagnosis is especially in rural areas a problem due to the limited access to assessments. Therefore, the aim of our scoping review is to investigate different interventions targeted at rural living elderly to screen and diagnose cognitive decline and dementia.
METHODS: A scoping review was conducted in line with the framework of Arksey and O'Malley. The following databases were systematically searched: PubMed, PsycINFO, Cochrane Library, and ScienceDirect. The interventions were categorized in four main categories (interventions for general practitioners/institutions; online/mobile offers; telehealth applications; telephone-based screenings).
RESULTS: Thirty studies were included. The four categories show different scopes of application. Telehealth applications show that it is feasible and valid to diagnose dementia via videoconference. Assessments described in three other categories show that remotely used tools are appropriate to screen for mild cognitive impairment or cognitive decline, but are not valid to establish a dementia diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Telehealth applications can appropriately be used to diagnose dementia. However, most of the studies included only small sample sizes and did not test the applications explicitly in rural or remote populations. Therefore, studies taking these limitations into account are needed. On top, only two RCTs are included in this review indicating that more high quality studies in this field are needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile and traditional cognitive behavioral therapy programs for generalized anxiety disorder: A cost-effectiveness analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a debilitating mental health illness that affects approximately 3.1% of U.S. adults and can be treated with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). With the emergence of digital health technologies, mobile CBT may be a cost-effective way to deliver care. We developed an analysis framework to quantify the cost-effectiveness of internet-based CBT for individuals with GAD. As a case study, we examined the potential value of a new mobile-delivered CBT program for GAD.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model of GAD health states combined with a detailed economic analysis for a cohort of adults with GAD in the U.S. In our case study, we used pilot program efficacy data to evaluate a mobile CBT program as either prevention or treatment only and compared the strategies to traditional CBT and no CBT. Traditional CBT efficacy was estimated from clinical trial results. We calculated discounted incremental costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over the cohort lifetime.
CASE STUDY RESULTS: In the base case, for a cohort of 100,000 persons with GAD, we found that mobile CBT is cost-saving. It leads to a gain of 34,108 QALYs and 81,492 QALYs and a cost reduction of $2.23 billion and $4.54 billion when compared to traditional CBT and no CBT respectively. Results were insensitive to most model inputs and mobile CBT remained cost-saving in almost all scenarios.
LIMITATIONS: The case study was conducted for illustrative purposes and used mobile CBT efficacy data from a small pilot program; the analysis should be re-conducted once robust efficacy data is available. The model was limited in its ability to measure the effectiveness of CBT in combination with pharmacotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Mobile CBT may lead to improved health outcomes at lower costs than traditional CBT or no intervention and may be effective as either prevention or treatment.
Label Included: 1

Title: The Cost-effectiveness of the Online MindSpot Clinic for the Treatment of Depression and Anxiety in Australia.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The MindSpot Clinic (MindSpot) offers internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy (iCBT) courses for people with anxiety and depressive disorders in Australia. The efficacy credentials of the courses offered at MindSpot are now well established but not the credentials of cost-effectiveness. The current study is aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the Wellbeing Course offered in MindSpot in comparison with the routine/usual care (defined as care in the absence of MindSpot) for people with symptoms of depression or/and anxiety from the perspective of Australian Department of Health.
METHODS: An economic model using a one-year decision-tree framework was constructed. The four health states in the model included: fully recovered; partially recovered; no improvement; and deteriorated. The probabilities between the four health states in the model were derived from a series of individual client datasets and from the Australian National Survey of Mental Health and Wellbeing. The EuroQol Five Dimension -- Five Level was used to derive the utilities, and costs were expressed in 2014 Australian dollars. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to examine the robustness of results to key model parameters.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, for people seeking treatment, care offered at Mindspot cost less and achieved greater benefits compared to the comparator. By adopting MindSpot, an additional 505 of fully recovered and 223 of partially recovered clients can be achieved per annum compared to routine/usual care. The result of the sensitivity analyses indicated the result of the analysis were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: This study found that the iCBT treatments provided by MindSpot were highly cost-effective in comparison with current routine/usual care in the Australia setting. However, future research using a prospective matched comparator that comprehensively assesses all the respective costs is required to verify the current study findings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Build a global Earth observatory.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a guided internet- and mobile-based depression intervention for individuals with chronic back pain: protocol of a multi-centre randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Depression often co-occurs with chronic back pain (CBP). Internet and mobile-based interventions (IMIs) might be a promising approach for effectively treating depression in this patient group. In the present study, we will evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a guided depression IMI for individuals with CBP (eSano BackCare-D) integrated into orthopaedic healthcare.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: In this multicentre randomised controlled trial of parallel design, the groups eSano BackCare-D versus treatment as usual will be compared. 210 participants with CBP and diagnosed depression will be recruited subsequent to orthopaedic rehabilitation care. Assessments will be conducted prior to randomisation and 9 weeks (post-treatment) and 6 months after randomisation. The primary outcome is depression severity (Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression-17). Secondary outcomes are depression remission and response, health-related quality of life, pain intensity, pain-related disability, self-efficacy and work capacity. Demographic and medical variables as well as internet affinity, intervention adherence, intervention satisfaction and negative effects will also be assessed. Data will be analysed on an intention-to-treat basis with additional per-protocol analyses. Moreover, a cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis will be conducted from a societal perspective after 6 months.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: All procedures are approved by the ethics committee of the Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg and the data security committee of the German Pension Insurance (Deutsche Rentenversicherung). The results will be published in peer-reviewed journals and presented on international conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: DRKS00009272; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using tele-emergency to avoid patient transfers in rural emergency departments: An assessment of costs and benefits.
Abstract: Introduction Tele-emergency can address several challenges facing emergency departments in rural areas. The purpose of this paper is to (a) examine the rates of avoided transfers in rural emergency departments that adopted tele-emergency applications; and (b) estimate the costs and benefits of using tele-emergency to avoid transfers. Methods Analysis is based on 9048 tele-emergency encounters generated by the Avera eEmergency programme (Sioux Falls, South Dakota) in 85 rural hospitals across seven states between October 2009-February 2014. For each non-transfer patient, physicians indicated whether the transfer was avoided because of tele-emergency activation. The cost-benefit analysis is conducted from the hospital, patient and societal perspectives, and includes technology costs, local hospital revenues and patient-associated savings. All monetary values are expressed in US$. Sensitivity analysis is conducted by examining the worst and best case scenarios of costs, revenues and savings. Results In these analyses, 1175 avoided transfers were attributed to tele-emergency. From a rural hospital perspective, tele-emergency costs around US$1739 to avoid a single transfer. However, tele-emergency saves around US$5563 in avoided transportation and indirect patient costs. Combining these, from a societal perspective, tele-emergency has the potential to result in a net savings of US$3823 per avoided transfer while accounting for tele-emergency technology costs, hospital revenues, and patient-associated savings. Conclusion This study highlights various stakeholder perspectives on the financial impact of tele-emergency in avoiding patient transfers in rural emergency departments. Telemedicine has the potential to reduce the number of transfers of emergency department patients and generate some revenue for rural hospitals despite associated technology costs, while incurring substantial patient savings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of a telemedicine eICU cart on sepsis management in a community hospital emergency department.
Abstract: Introduction Intensivist involvement for patients with sepsis is associated with decreased complications and mortality, and lower hospital resource utilization, but few studies have evaluated outcomes for patients exposed to electronic intensive care unit (eICU) telemedicine sepsis management in the emergency department (ED). In this study, we assess whether eICU cart exposure in the ED improved compliance with components of the 2010 Surviving Sepsis Campaign bundles, length of stay (LOS), disposition and hospital costs. Methods An institutional review board-approved, retrospective cohort study was completed on patients with confirmed sepsis who presented to our ED from July 2010 through February 2013. Results Of 711 patient ED encounters, 314 cases met criteria for analysis (95 exposed and 219 non-exposed). Patient cohorts had similar demographics and comorbid International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Edition (ICD-9) diagnoses. The exposed cohort received antibiotics more quickly (122.3 minutes ±83.3 versus 163.4 minutes ±204.4, p = 0.043) and were more likely to have lactic acid levels drawn within six hours (98.9% vs. 90%, p = 0.019). The exposed cohort had a shortened ED LOS (in days) 0.08 ± 0.28 versus 0.16 ± 0.37, p = 0.036. Hospital LOS, disposition and death were similar in both cohorts. Total hospital costs for the exposed cohort were lower and less variable (US$19,713 ± 16,550 vs. US$24,364 ± 25068), but this was not significant ( p = 0.274). Discussion Our findings suggest that in individuals with confirmed sepsis, ED exposure to a telemedicine-based eICU cart impacted adherence to aspects of the Surviving Sepsis Campaign recommended bundle, but did not impact overall survival and medical costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Care coordination in a business-to-business and a business-to-consumer model for telemonitoring patients with chronic diseases.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: For telemonitoring to support care coordination, a sound business model is conditional. The aim of this study is to explore the systemic and economic differences in care coordination via business-to-business and business-to-consumer models for telemonitoring patients with chronic diseases.
METHODS: We performed a literature search in order to design the business-to-business and business-to-consumer telemonitoring models, and to assess the design elements and themes by applying the activity system theory, and describe the transaction costs in each model. The design elements are content, structure, and governance, while the design themes are novelty, lock-in, complementarities, and efficiency. In the transaction cost analysis, we looked into all the elements of a transaction in both models.
RESULTS: Care coordination in the business-to-business model is designed to be organized between the places of activity, rather than the participants in the activity. The design of the business-to-business model creates a firm lock-in but for a limited time. In the business-to-consumer model, the interdependencies are to be found between the persons in the care process and not between the places of care. The differences between the models were found in both the design elements and the design themes.
DISCUSSION: Care coordination in the business-to-business and business-to-consumer models for telemonitoring chronic diseases differs in principle in terms of design elements and design themes. Based on the theoretical models, the transaction costs could potentially be lower in the business-to-consumer model than in the business-to-business, which could be a promoting economic principle for the implementation of telemonitoring.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs of Care of Agitation Associated With Dementia in 8 European Countries: Results From the RightTimePlaceCare Study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To estimate the additional societal costs for people living with dementia (PwD) with agitation in home care (HC) and institutional long-term care (ILTC) settings in 8 European countries.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional data from the RightTimePlaceCare cohort.
SETTING: HC and ILTC settings from 8 European countries (Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and England).
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 1997 PwD (1217 in HC group and 780 lived in an ILTC) and their caregivers.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Medical care, community care, and informal care were recorded using the Resource Utilization in Dementia (RUD) questionnaire. Agitation was assessed based on the agitation symptoms cluster defined by the presence of agitation and/or irritability and/or disinhibition and/or aberrant motor behavior items of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory Questionnaire (NPI-Q).
RESULTS: Total monthly mean cost differences due to agitation were 445€ in the HC setting and 561€ in the ILTC setting (P = .01 and .02, respectively). Informal care costs were the main driver in the HC group (73% of total costs) and institutional care costs were the main driver in the ILTC group (53% of total costs). After adjustments, the log link generalized linear mixed model showed an association between agitation symptoms and an increase of informal care costs by 17% per month in HC setting (P < .05).
CONCLUSION: This study found that agitation symptoms have a substantial impact on informal care costs in the community care setting. Future research is needed to evaluate which strategies may be efficient by improving the cost-effectiveness ratio and reducing the burden associated with informal care in the management of agitation in PwD.
Label Included: 0

Title: E-Healthcare for Celiac Disease-A Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the (cost-)effectiveness of online consultations in follow-up of patients with celiac disease (CD).
STUDY DESIGN: Multicenter randomized, controlled trial involving 304 patients aged ≤25 years with CD for ≥1 year, randomized to an online (n = 156) or outpatient consultation (n = 148). An online consultation included questionnaires for symptom and growth measurement. Antitransglutaminase-type-2 antibodies were determined using a point-of-care (POC) test. Controls had a traditional consultation with antitransglutaminase-type-2 antibodies testing in laboratories. Both groups completed questionnaires concerning CD-specific health-related quality of life (HRQOL), gluten-free diet adherence, and patient satisfaction. Six months later, participants repeated HRQOL and patient satisfaction questionnaires and the POC test. The primary outcome was anti-transglutaminase-type-2 antibodies after 6 months, and the secondary outcomes were health problems, dietary adherence, HRQOL, patient satisfaction, and costs.
RESULTS: The performance of the POC test was inferior to laboratory testing (2/156 positive POC tests vs 13/148 positive laboratory tests; P = .003). Health problems were detected significantly more frequently using online consultation. The detection of growth problems and dietary transgressions was similar. HRQOL (from 1 [good] to 5 [poor]) improved after online consultation (from 3.25 to 3.16 [P = .013] vs controls from 3.10 to 3.23; P = .810). Patient satisfaction (from 1 [low] to 10 [high]) was 7.6 (online) vs 8.0 (controls; P = .001); 58% wished to continue online consultations. Mean costs per participant during the studied period were €202 less for the online group (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: The primary outcome could not be tested because the POC test was unreliable. Nevertheless, our results indicate that online consultations for children and young adults with CD are cost saving, increase CD-specific HRQOL, and are satisfactory for the majority.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Trialregister.nl: NTR3688.
Label Included: 0

Title: Medication Adherence and Technology-Based Interventions for Adolescents With Chronic Health Conditions: A Few Key Considerations.
Abstract: The number of children and adolescents with chronic health conditions (CHCs) has doubled over the past two decades. Medication adherence is a key component of disease management within these groups. Low adherence to prescribed medications is a known problem in adolescents with CHCs and is related to health outcomes, including quality of life, disease complications, and mortality. Adolescence is a critical time to create routines and health behaviors that optimize disease self-management and transition to adult care. The mounting interest in the development and use of mobile health tools provides novel opportunities to connect patients, particularly adolescents, with their providers outside of the clinic and to improve health outcomes. There is growing evidence to support the efficacy of technology-based approaches, in particular text-messaging and mobile apps, to improve adherence behavior in adolescents, although cost-effectiveness and long-term health benefits remain unclear. In this short viewpoint article, we review some important considerations for promoting medication adherence in adolescents with CHCs using technology-based approaches.
Label Included: 0

Title: Real-world evidence concerning clinical and economic outcomes of switching to insulin glargine 300 units/mL vs other basal insulins in patients with type 2 diabetes using basal insulin.
Abstract: This retrospective cohort study compared real-world clinical and healthcare-resource utilization (HCRU) data in patients with type 2 diabetes using basal insulin (BI) who switched to insulin glargine 300 units/mL (Gla-300) or another BI. Data from the Predictive Health Intelligence Environment database 12 months before (baseline) and 6 months after (follow-up) the switch date (index date, March 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016) included glycated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), hypoglycaemia, HCRU and associated costs. Baseline characteristics were balanced using propensity score matching. Change in HbA1c from baseline was similar in both matched cohorts (n = 1819 in each). Hypoglycaemia incidence and adjusted event rate were significantly lower with Gla-300. Patients switching to Gla-300 had a significantly lower incidence of HCRU related to hypoglycaemia. All-cause and diabetes-related hospitalization and emergency-department HCRU were also favourable for Gla-300. Lower HCRU translated to lower costs in patients using Gla-300. In this real-world study, switching to Gla-300 reduced the risk of hypoglycaemia in patients with type 2 diabetes when compared with those switching to another BI, resulting in less HCRU and potential savings of associated costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Demonstration of the Use of Remote Temperature Monitoring Devices in Vaccine Refrigerators in Haiti.
Abstract: After the 2010 earthquake, Haiti committed to introducing 4 new antigens into its routine immunization schedule, which required improving its cold chain (ie, temperature-controlled supply chain) and increasing vaccine storage capacity by installing new refrigerators. We tested the feasibility of using remote temperature monitoring devices (RTMDs) in Haiti in a sample of vaccine refrigerators fueled by solar panels, propane gas, or electricity. We analyzed data from 16 RTMDs monitoring 24 refrigerators in 15 sites from March through August 2014. Although 5 of the 16 RTMDs exhibited intermittent data gaps, we identified typical temperature patterns consistent with refrigerator door opening and closing, propane depletion, thermostat insufficiency, and overstocking. Actual start-up, annual maintenance, and annual electricity costs for using RTMDs were $686, $179, and $9 per refrigerator, respectively. In Haiti, RTMD use was feasible. RTMDs could be prioritized for use with existing refrigerators with high volumes of vaccines and new refrigerators to certify their functionality before use. Vaccine vial monitors could provide additional useful information about cumulative heat exposure and possible vaccine denaturation.
Label Included: 0

Title: User Experience of an Innovative Mobile Health Program to Assist in Insulin Dose Adjustment: Outcomes of a Proof-Of-Concept Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many patients with diabetes require insulin therapy to achieve optimal glycemic control. Initiation and titration of insulin often require an insulin dose adjustment (IDA) program, involving frequent exchange of blood glucose levels (BGLs) and insulin prescription advice between the patient and healthcare team. This process is time consuming with logistical barriers.
OBJECTIVE: To develop an innovative mobile health (m-Health) mobile-based IDA program (mIDA) and evaluate the user adherence and experience through a proof-of-concept trial.
METHODS: In the program, an m-Health system was designed to be integrated within a clinical IDA service, comprising a Bluetooth-enabled glucose meter, smartphone application, and clinician portal. Insulin-requiring patients with type-2 diabetes mellitus and stable BGL were recruited to use the m-Health system to record and exchange BGL entries, insulin dosages, and clinical messages for 2 weeks. The user experience was evaluated by a Likert scale questionnaire.
RESULTS: Nine participants, aged 58 ± 14 years (mean ± SD), completed the trial with average daily records of 3.1 BGL entries and 1.2 insulin dosage entries. The participants recognized the potential value of the clinical messages. They felt confident about managing their diabetes and were positive regarding ease of use and family support of the system, but disagreed that there were no technical issues. Finally, they were satisfied with the program and would continue to use it if possible.
CONCLUSIONS: The m-Health system for IDA showed promising levels of adherence, usability, perception of usefulness, and satisfaction. Further research is required to assess the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of using this system in outpatient settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: COST ANALYSIS OF PERIPHERALLY INSERTED CENTRAL CATHETER IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS.
Abstract: PURPOSE: A peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) is a useful option in providing secure venous access, which enables patients to be discharged earlier with the provision of home care. The objective was to identify the costs associated with having a PICC from a societal perspective, and to identify factors that are associated with total PICC costs.
METHODS: Data were obtained from a retrospective cohort of 469 hospitalized pediatric patients with PICCs inserted. Both direct and indirect costs were estimated from a societal perspective. Insertion costs, complication costs, nurse and physician assessment costs, inpatient ward costs, catheter removal costs, home care costs, travel costs, and the cost associated with productivity losses incurred by parents were included in this study.
RESULTS: Based on catheter dwell time, the median total cost associated with a PICC per patient per day (including inpatient hospital costs) was $3,133.5 ($2,210.7-$9,627.0) in 2017 Canadian dollars ($1.00USD = $1.25CAD in 2017). The adjusted mean cost per patient per day was $2,648.2 ($2,402.4-$2,920.4). Excluding inpatient ward costs, the median total and adjusted costs per patient per day were $198.8 ($91.8-$2,475.8) and $362.7($341.0-$386.0), respectively. Younger age, occurrence of complications, more catheter dwell days, wards with more intensive care, and the absence of home care were significant factors associated with higher total PICC costs.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has demonstrated the costs associated with PICCs. This information may be helpful for healthcare providers to understand PICC related cost in children and resource implications.
Label Included: 0

Title: PsyScan e-tool to support diagnosis and management of psychological problems in general practice: a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: GPs are crucial in adequately diagnosing and initiating appropriate management for patients with psychological problems, but face many challenges and require support.
AIM: To determine the effects of the e-tool PsyScan.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A randomised controlled trial with a 1-year follow-up, comparing care using PsyScan with usual care for psychological problems, was undertaken in 10 multidisciplinary primary healthcare centres in Eindhoven, the Netherlands.
METHOD: Between consultations with their GP, participants in the intervention group could complete PsyScan. The e-tool consists of a distress screener and Four-Dimensional Symptom Questionnaire to differentiate between stress, depression, anxiety, and somatisation symptoms, and to explore symptom severity. PsyScan generated diagnostic and therapeutic advice for GPs and participants that was automatically transferred to each patient's electronic medical record. The primary outcome was the proportion of participants that achieved a successful treatment result; namely, a decrease of ≥50% on the Symptom Checklist-90-Revised, after 1 year.
RESULTS: There were 176 participants in the intervention group and 160 in the control group. After multiple imputation, the participants in the intervention group had higher chances of achieving a successful treatment result compared with those in the control group (odds ratio [OR] 2.7, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.5 to 4.8, P = 0.002). Quality of life was higher in the intervention group at 12 months (mean difference in EuroQol 5 Dimensions 5 Levels index values was 0.076, 95% CI = 0.015 to 0.136, P = 0.01). The mean 1-year costs per participant were similar (€13 622 in intervention group, €12 487 in control group [β = -0.03, P = 0.71, R2 = 0.05]).
CONCLUSION: PsyScan generated clinically relevant and statistically significant effects, and could be useful in offering effective individualised care to patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: We need to mandate drug cost transparency on electronic medical records.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: The eSexual Health Clinic system for management, prevention, and control of sexually transmitted infections: exploratory studies in people testing for Chlamydia trachomatis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Self-directed and internet-based care are key elements of eHealth agendas. We developed a complex online clinical and public health intervention, the eSexual Health Clinic (eSHC), in which patients with genital chlamydia are diagnosed and medically managed via an automated online clinical consultation, leading to antibiotic collection from a pharmacy. Partner notification, health promotion, and capture of surveillance data are integral aspects of the eSHC. We aimed to assess the safety and feasibility of the eSHC as an alternative to routine care in non-randomised, exploratory proof-of-concept studies.
METHODS: Participants were untreated patients with chlamydia from genitourinary medicine clinics, untreated patients with chlamydia from six areas in England in the National Chlamydia Screening Programme's (NCSP) online postal testing service, or patients without chlamydia tested in the same six NCSP areas. All participants were aged 16 years or older. The primary outcome was the proportion of patients with chlamydia who consented to the online chlamydia pathway who then received appropriate clinical management either exclusively through online treatment or via a combination of online management and face-to-face care. We captured adverse treatment outcomes.
FINDINGS: Between July 21, 2014, and March 13, 2015, 2340 people used the eSHC. Of 197 eligible patients from genitourinary medicine clinics, 161 accessed results online. Of the 116 who consented to be included in the study, 112 (97%, 95% CI 91-99) received treatment, and 74 of those were treated exclusively online. Of the 146 eligible NCSP patients, 134 accessed their results online, and 105 consented to be included. 93 (89%, 95% CI 81-94) received treatment, and 60 were treated exclusively online. In both groups, median time to collection of treatment was within 1 day of receiving their diagnosis. 1776 (89%) of 1936 NCSP patients without chlamydia accessed results online. No adverse events were recorded.
INTERPRETATION: The eSHC is safe and feasible for management of patients with chlamydia, with preliminary evidence of similar treatment outcomes to those in traditional services. This innovative model could help to address growing clinical and public health needs. A definitive trial is needed to assess the efficacy, cost-effectiveness, and public health impact of this intervention.
FUNDING: UK Clinical Research Collaboration.
Label Included: 0

Title: Prospective economic evaluation of an electronic discharge communication tool: analysis of a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To complete an economic evaluation within a randomised controlled trial (RCT) comparing the use of an electronic discharge communication tool (eDCT) compared with usual care.
SETTING: Patients being discharged from a single tertiary care centre's internal medicine Medical Teaching Units.
PARTICIPANTS: Between January 2012 and December 2013, 1399 patients were randomised to a discharge mechanism. Forty-five patients were excluded from the economic evaluation as they did not have data for the index hospitalisation cost; 1354 patients contributed to the economic evaluation.
INTERVENTION: eDCT generated at discharge containing structured content on reason for admission, details of the hospital stay, treatments received and follow-up care required. The control group was discharged via traditional dictation methods.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary economic outcome was the cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Secondary outcomes included the cost per death avoided and the cost per readmission avoided.
RESULTS: The average transcription cost was $C22.28 per patient, whereas the estimated cost of the eDCT was $C13.33 per patient. The cost per QALY gained was $C239 933 in the eDCT arm compared with usual care due to the very small gains in effectiveness and approximately $C800difference in resource utilisation costs. The bootstrap analyses resulted in eDCT being more effective and more costly in 29.2% of samples, less costly and more effective in 29.2% of samples, less effective and more costly in 23.9% of samples and finally, less costly and less effective in 17.7% of samples.
CONCLUSIONS: The eDCT reduced per patient costs of the generation of discharge summaries. The bootstrap estimates demonstrate considerable uncertainty supporting the finding of neutrality reported in the clinical component of the RCT. The immediate transcription cost savings and previously documented provider and patient satisfaction may increase the impetus for organisations to invest in such systems, provided they have a foundation of eHealth infrastructure and readiness.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT01402609.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical reminder alert fatigue in healthcare: a systematic literature review protocol using qualitative evidence.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Integrated reminders within clinical systems have become more prevalent due to the use of electronic health records and evidence demonstrating an increase in compliance within practice. Clinical reminders are assessed for effectiveness on an individual basis, rather than in combination with existing prompts for other conditions. The growing number of prompts may be counter-productive as healthcare professionals are increasingly suffering from "reminder fatigue" meaning many reminders are ignored. This work will review the qualitative evidence to identify barriers and enablers of existing prompts found within computerised decision support systems. Our focus will be on primary care where clinicians have to negotiate a plethora of reminders as they deal with increasingly complex patients and sophisticated treatment regimes. The review will provide a greater understanding of existing systems and the way clinicians interact with them to inform the development of more effective and targeted clinical reminders.
METHODS: A comprehensive search using piloted terms will be used to identify relevant literature from 1960 (or commencement of database) to 2017. MEDLINE, MEDLINE In Process, EMBASE, HMIC, PsycINFO, CDSR DARE, HTA, CINAHL and CPCI, will be searched, as well as grey literature and references and citations of included papers. Manuscripts will be assessed for eligibility, bias and quality using the CASP tool with narrative data being included and questionnaire based studies excluded. Inductive thematic analysis will be performed in order to produce a conceptual framework defining the key barriers around integrated clinical reminders.
DISCUSSION: Indications of alert and reminder fatigue are found throughout the current literature. However, this has not been fully investigated using a robust qualitative approach, particularly in a rapidly growing body of evidence. This review will aid people forming new clinical systems so that alerts can be incorporated appropriately.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO: CRD42016029418.
Label Included: 0

Title: Outcomes of Laparoscopic Colectomy in Younger and Older Patients: An Analysis of Nationwide Readmission Database.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Prior studies report safety and effectiveness of laparoscopic colectomy in older patients. The study aimed to examine the impact of laparoscopic colectomy on 30-day readmissions, discharge destination, hospital length of stay, and cost in younger (19-65 years) and older adults (>65 years).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used the nationwide readmission database from 2013 to study adults undergoing elective colectomy. The outcomes were 30-day readmissions, discharge destination for the index hospitalization (routine, skilled nursing facility [SNF]/intermediate care facility [ICF], home healthcare), length of stay, and cost. Multivariable analyses were conducted to determine the association of laparoscopic colectomy on outcome; logistic regression for 30-day readmission, multinomial logistic regression for discharge destination, and linear regression for length of stay and cost. An interaction between age and colectomy approach was included, and all models controlled gender, income, insurance status, All Patients Refined Diagnosis Related Groups (APR-DRG), Elixhauser comorbidities, hospital bed size, ownership, and teaching status.
RESULTS: Of 79,581 colectomies, 40.2% were laparoscopic. Laparoscopic colectomy was more frequent in younger patients (41.9% versus 38.5%, p < .0001). Regardless of age, patients undergoing laparoscopic colectomy were 20% less likely to be readmitted within 30 days (odds ratio [OR] 0.80, confidence interval [95% CI] 0.75-0.85). For postdischarge destination, laparoscopic colectomy offered higher benefits to younger patients (SNF/ICF: OR 0.42, 95% CI 0.36-0.49; home health: OR 0.32, 95% CI 0.30-0.35) than older patients (SNF/ICF: OR 0.50, 95% CI 0.47-0.54; home health: OR 0.59, 95% CI 0.55-0.62). Regardless of age, laparoscopic colectomy resulted in 1.46 days (p < .0001) shorter hospital stays compared to open colectomy. Laparoscopic colectomy had significantly lower cost compared to open approach, particularly in younger ($1,466) versus older ($632) patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic colectomy is superior to an open approach, with fewer 30-day readmissions, fewer discharges to SNF/ICF or home health, shorter hospital stays, and less overall cost; younger patients benefit more than older patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Health Technology (mDiab) for the Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The prevalence of type 2 diabetes is increasing in epidemic proportions in low- and middle-income countries. There is an urgent need for novel methods to tackle the increasing incidence of diabetes. The ubiquity of mobile phone use and access to Internet makes mobile health (mHealth) technology a viable tool to prevent and manage diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this randomized controlled trial is to implement and evaluate the feasibility, cost-effectiveness, and sustainability of a reality television-based lifestyle intervention program. This intervention program is delivered via a mobile phone app (mDiab) to approximately 1500 Android smartphone users who are adults at a high risk for type 2 diabetes from three cities in India, namely, Chennai, Bengaluru, and New Delhi.
METHODS: The mDiab intervention would be delivered via a mobile phone app along with weekly coach calls for 12 weeks. Each participant will go through a maintenance phase of 6 to 8 months post intervention. Overall, there would be 3 testing time points in the study: baseline, post intervention, and the end of follow-up. The app will enable individuals to track their weight, physical activity, and diet alongside weekly video lessons on type 2 diabetes prevention.
RESULTS: The study outcomes are weight loss (primary measure of effectiveness); improvement in cardiometabolic risk factors (ie, waist circumference, blood pressure, glucose, insulin, and lipids); and improvement in physical activity, quality of life, and dietary habits. Sustainability will be assessed through focus group discussions.
CONCLUSIONS: If successful, mDiab can be used as a model for translational and implementation research in the use of mHealth technology for diabetes prevention and may be further expanded for the prevention of other noncommunicable diseases such as hypertension and cardiovascular diseases.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials Registry of India CTRI/2015/07/006011 http://ctri.nic.in/Clinicaltrials/pdf_generate.php? trialid=11841 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6urCS5kMB).
Label Included: 0

Title: Neck-specific exercises with internet-based support compared to neck-specific exercises at a physiotherapy clinic for chronic whiplash-associated disorders: study protocol of a randomized controlled multicentre trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Globally, neck pain is the fourth most common condition associated with longer periods of living with disability. Annually, approximately 0.3% of the population of Western countries undergo whiplash trauma, and half of those individuals will develop chronic problems with high costs for the individual and society. Evidence for chronic whiplash-associated disorders (WAD) treatment is scarce, though neck-specific training at a physiotherapy clinic twice a week for 12 weeks has demonstrated good results. More efficient, flexible rehabilitation with reduced waiting times and lower costs is needed, ideally replacing lengthy on-site treatment series by healthcare providers. Internet-based care has been shown to be a viable alternative for a variety of diseases and interventions, but studies are lacking on Internet-based interventions for individuals with chronic neck problems. The aim of the trial described here is to compare the effects of an Internet-based neck-specific exercise programme to the same exercises performed at a physiotherapy clinic in regards to self-reported and clinical measures, as well as cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: This prospective, randomized controlled trial will involve 140 participants. Measurements will be made at baseline, 3 months (end of treatment), and 15 months (12 months after end of intervention) and will include ratings of pain, disability, satisfaction with care, work ability, quality of life, and cost-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: The study results may contribute to the development of a more effective rehabilitation, flexible and equal care, shorter waiting times, increased availability, and lower costs for healthcare and society.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Protocol ID: NCT03022812 , initial release 12/20/2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: New Technologies: Real-time Telepathology Systems-Novel Cost-effective Tools for Real-time Consultation and Data Sharing.
Abstract: Real-time telepathology for use in investigative and regulated preclinical toxicology studies is now feasible. Newly developed microscope-integrated telepathology systems enable geographically remote stakeholders to view the live histopathology slide as seen by the study pathologist within the microscope. Simultaneous online viewing and dialog between study pathologist and remote colleagues is an efficient and cost-effective means for consultation, pathology working groups, and peer review, facilitating good science and economic benefits by enabling more timely and informed clinical decisions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Update on Electronic Dental Record and Clinical Computing Adoption Among Dental Practices in the United States.
Abstract: This study sought to re-characterize trends and factors affecting electronic dental record (EDR) and technologies adoption by dental practices and the impact of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) act on adoption rates through 2012. A 39-question survey was disseminated nationally over 3 months using a novel, statistically-modeled approach informed by early response rates to achieve a predetermined sample. EDR adoption rate for clinical support was 52%. Adoption rates were higher among: (1) younger dentists; (2) dentists ≤ 15 years in practice; (3) females; and (4) group practices. Top barriers to adoption were EDR cost/expense, cost-benefit ratio, electronic format conversion, and poor EDR usability. Awareness of the Federal HITECH incentive program was low. The rate of chairside computer implementation was 72%. Adoption of EDR in dental offices in the United States was higher in 2012 than electronic health record adoption rates in medical offices and was not driven by the HITECH program. Patient portal adoption among dental practices in the United States remained low.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of an Automated Digital Remote Guidance and Telemonitoring Platform on Costs, Readmissions, and Complications After Hip and Knee Arthroplasties.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The impact of a new class of automated digital patient engagement (DPE) platforms on potentially avoidable costs, hospital admissions, and complications after discharge following hip and knee arthroplasties has not been established.
METHODS: We conducted a multicenter observational cohort study comparing claims data for potentially avoidable costs, hospital admissions, and complications for 90 days after discharge following hip and knee arthroplasties at 10 practice sites in CA and NV. One hundred eighty-six patients, enrolled between 2014 and 2016 on an automated DPE platform receiving guidance and remote monitoring perioperatively, were compared with 372 patients who underwent the same procedures from the same physicians within 3 years immediately preceding platform implementation. The primary end point was the proportion of patients with $0.00 in 90-day target costs because of potentially avoidable utilization within the platform's influence. Secondary end points included rates of potentially avoidable 90-day hospital admissions and composite complications.
RESULTS: Ninety-three percent and 84.7% of the study and baseline cohorts, respectively, had $0.00 in target costs (P = .004), with a mean savings of $656.52/patient (P = .006). The baseline and study cohorts had 3.0% and 1.6% 90-day hospital admission rates (relative risk 0.545; 0.154, 1.931, P = .40), and 15.3% and 7.0% composite complication rates, respectively (relative risk 0.456; 0.256, 0.812, P = .004).
CONCLUSION: Patients enrolled on an automated DPE platform after hip and knee arthroplasties demonstrated a significant reduction in potentially avoidable 90-day costs, a 45.4% nonsignificant relative reduction in 90-day hospital admissions, and a 54.4% significant relative reduction in 90-day complications.
Label Included: 0

Title: Maccabi proactive Telecare Center for chronic conditions - the care of frail elderly patients.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In 2012, Maccabi Healthcare Services founded Maccabi Telecare Center (MTC), a multi-disciplinary healthcare service providing telemedical care to complex chronic patients. The current paper describes the establishment and operation of the MTC center, from the identification of the need for the service, through the design of its solution elements, to outcomes in several areas of care. We analyze the effects of the program on elderly frail patients, a growing population with complex and costly needs.
METHODS: Observational quasi-experimental analyses using propensity score matching was used to assess the effect of MTC's operation on utilization outcomes including direct costs.
RESULTS: Results for frail elderly patients with complex chronic conditions show significant reductions in hospitalization days and hospitalization costs. MTC interventions also entailed lower overall average monthly costs in frail patients.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that a proactive telehealth service for complex chronic patients using education, empowerment to self-management, and coordination of care is a cost-effective means of improving quality care and health outcomes in frail elderly patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Internet-Based Cognitive-Behavioral Treatment for Bulimia Nervosa: Results of a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of Internet-based cognitive-behavioral therapy for bulimia nervosa (CBT-BN) compared to face-to-face delivery of CBT-BN.
METHODS: This study is a planned secondary analysis of data from a randomized clinical trial. Participants were 179 adults (98% female, mean age = 28 years) meeting DSM-IV criteria for bulimia nervosa who were randomized to group face-to-face or group Internet-based CBT-BN for 16 sessions during 20 weeks. The cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted from a third-party payor perspective, and a partial societal perspective analysis was conducted to investigate cost-utility (ie, cost per gain in quality-adjusted life-years) and patient out-of-pocket travel-related costs. Net health care costs were calculated from protocol and nonprotocol health care services using third-party payor cost estimates. The primary outcome measure in the clinical trial was abstinence from binge eating and purging, and the trial start and end dates were 2008 and 2016.
RESULTS: The mean cost per abstinent patient at posttreatment was $7,757 (95% confidence limit [CL], $4,515, $13,361) for face-to-face and $11,870 (95% CL, $6,486, $22,188) for Internet-based CBT-BN, and at 1-year follow-up was $16,777 (95% CL, $10,298, $27,042) for face-to-face and $14,561 (95% CL, $10,165, $21,028) for Internet-based CBT-BN. There were no statistically significant differences between treatment arms in cost-effectiveness or cost-utility at posttreatment or 1-year follow-up. Out-of-pocket patient costs were significantly higher for face-to-face (mean [95% CL] = $178 [$127, $140]) than Internet-based ($50 [$50, $50]) therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Third-party payor cost-effectiveness of Internet-based CBT-BN is comparable with that of an accepted standard. Internet-based dissemination of CBT-BN may be a viable alternative for patients geographically distant from specialist eating disorder services who have an unmet need for treatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00877786​.
Label Included: 1

Title: The effect of major adverse renal cardiovascular event (MARCE) incidence, procedure volume, and unit cost on the hospital savings resulting from contrast media use in inpatient angioplasty.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine the net economic impact of switching from low-osmolar contrast media (LOCM) to iso-osmolar contrast media (IOCM; iodixanol) in patients undergoing inpatient coronary or peripheral angioplasty in the United States (US).
METHODS: A budget impact model (BIM) was developed from a hospital perspective. Nationally representative procedural and contrast media prevalence rates, along with MARCE (major adverse renal cardiovascular event) incidence and episode-related cost data were derived from Premier Hospital Data (October 2014 to September 2015). A previously estimated relative risk reduction in MARCE associated with IOCM usage (9.3%) was applied. The higher cost of IOCM was included when calculating the net impact estimates at the aggregate, hospital type, and per hospital levels. One-way (±25%) and probabilistic sensitivity analyses identified the model's most important inputs.
RESULTS: Based on weighted analysis, 513,882 US inpatient angioplasties and 35,610 MARCE cases were estimated annually. Switching to an "IOCM only" strategy from a "LOCM only" strategy increases contrast media cost, but prevents 2,900 MARCE events. The annual budget impact was an estimated saving of $30.71 million, aggregated across all US hospitals, $6,316 per hospital, or $60 per procedure. Net savings were maintained across all univariate sensitivity analyses. While MARCE/event-free cost differential was the most important factor driving total net savings for hospitals in the Northeast and West, procedural volume was important in the Midwest and rural locations.
CONCLUSIONS: Switching to an "IOCM only" strategy from a "LOCM only" approach yields substantial net global savings to hospitals, both at the national level and within hospital sub-groups. Hospital administrators should maintain awareness of the factors that are likely to be more influential for their hospital and recognize that purchasing on the basis of lower contrast media cost may result in higher overall costs for patients undergoing inpatient angioplasty.
Label Included: 0

Title: In-home versus hospital preoperative balance and proprioceptive training in patients undergoing TKR; rationale, design, and method of a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Severe knee osteoarthritis, as well as the surgical procedure of total knee replacement that aims to reduce its symptoms, cause great deterioration on the proprioceptive system. Taking this fact into account, and considering that balance abilities positively influence the capacity to perform basic functional tasks, this trial aims to find the short and mid-term effects of a preoperative balance and proprioceptive training when conducted by patients undergoing total knee replacement. Along with the effects, it is intended to determine whether in-home based training can be as effective as hospital training. The results will help to conclude whether the possible benefits may outweigh the health costs.
METHODS: Seventy-five participants will take part. The trial will include in-home and supervised hospital experimental training compared to a non-active control group in order to estimate the actual effect of the proposal against the benefits due exclusively to the surgical procedure. Interventions last 4 weeks prior to surgery, and the follow-up will be at 2w, 6w, and 1y following the operation. The primary outcomes are in agreement with the goals: self-reported functionality in terms of KOOS and overall balance in terms of the Berg Balance Scale. The secondary outcomes will include the measurements of static and dynamic balance abilities, pain, function, and quality of life.
DISCUSSION: It is expected for the results of this trial to provide relevant information in order to decide if a specific intervention is cost-effective to be implemented in clinical practice.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT03100890 . Registered in April 4, 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-based health promotion for older people with mild frailty: the HomeHealth intervention development and feasibility RCT.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mild frailty or pre-frailty is common and yet is potentially reversible. Preventing progression to worsening frailty may benefit individuals and lower health/social care costs. However, we know little about effective approaches to preventing frailty progression.
OBJECTIVES: (1) To develop an evidence- and theory-based home-based health promotion intervention for older people with mild frailty. (2) To assess feasibility, costs and acceptability of (i) the intervention and (ii) a full-scale clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness randomised controlled trial (RCT).
DESIGN: Evidence reviews, qualitative studies, intervention development and a feasibility RCT with process evaluation.
INTERVENTION DEVELOPMENT: Two systematic reviews (including systematic searches of 14 databases and registries, 1990-2016 and 1980-2014), a state-of-the-art review (from inception to 2015) and policy review identified effective components for our intervention. We collected data on health priorities and potential intervention components from semistructured interviews and focus groups with older people (aged 65-94 years) (n = 44), carers (n = 12) and health/social care professionals (n = 27). These data, and our evidence reviews, fed into development of the 'HomeHealth' intervention in collaboration with older people and multidisciplinary stakeholders. 'HomeHealth' comprised 3-6 sessions with a support worker trained in behaviour change techniques, communication skills, exercise, nutrition and mood. Participants addressed self-directed independence and well-being goals, supported through education, skills training, enabling individuals to overcome barriers, providing feedback, maximising motivation and promoting habit formation.
FEASIBILITY RCT: Single-blind RCT, individually randomised to 'HomeHealth' or treatment as usual (TAU).
SETTING: Community settings in London and Hertfordshire, UK.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 51 community-dwelling adults aged ≥ 65 years with mild frailty.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Feasibility - recruitment, retention, acceptability and intervention costs. Clinical and health economic outcome data at 6 months included functioning, frailty status, well-being, psychological distress, quality of life, capability and NHS and societal service utilisation/costs.
RESULTS: We successfully recruited to target, with good 6-month retention (94%). Trial procedures were acceptable with minimal missing data. Individual randomisation was feasible. The intervention was acceptable, with good fidelity and modest delivery costs (£307 per patient). A total of 96% of participants identified at least one goal, which were mostly exercise related (73%). We found significantly better functioning (Barthel Index +1.68; p = 0.004), better grip strength (+6.48 kg; p = 0.02), reduced psychological distress (12-item General Health Questionnaire -3.92; p = 0.01) and increased capability-adjusted life-years [+0.017; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.001 to 0.031] at 6 months in the intervention arm than the TAU arm, with no differences in other outcomes. NHS and carer support costs were variable but, overall, were lower in the intervention arm than the TAU arm. The main limitation was difficulty maintaining outcome assessor blinding.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence is lacking to inform frailty prevention service design, with no large-scale trials of multidomain interventions. From stakeholder/public perspectives, new frailty prevention services should be personalised and encompass multiple domains, particularly socialising and mobility, and can be delivered by trained non-specialists. Our multicomponent health promotion intervention was acceptable and delivered at modest cost. Our small study shows promise for improving clinical outcomes, including functioning and independence. A full-scale individually RCT is feasible.
FUTURE WORK: A large, definitive RCT of the HomeHealth service is warranted.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42014010370 and Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN11986672.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 21, No. 73. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementation and Evaluation of an Economic Model for Telestroke: Experience from Virtuall, France.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telestroke is recognized as a safe and time-efficient way of treating stroke patients. However, admission centers (spokes) are subject to financial charges which can make them reluctant to join the system. We implemented and assessed an economic model supporting our telestroke system, Virtuall, France, which includes one expert center (hub) and six spokes.
METHODS: The model is based on payment for the expertise provided by the hub, distribution of charges related to telemedicine according to the fees perceived by the spokes, and transfer of patients between the spokes and the hub. We performed a cost-benefit analysis for all patients included in Virtuall from January 2014 to December 2015 to assess the economic balance in each center.
RESULTS: 321 patients were prospectively included in the study. Application of the economic model resulted in overall financial balance with funding of a dedicated medical service in the hub, and reduced costs directly related to telestroke by an average of 10% in the spokes. The conditions generating the highest costs for the spokes were: a patient returning from the hub for re-hospitalization (mean cost of $1,995/patient); management of patients treated by intravenous thrombolysis without transfer to the hub (mean cost of $2,075/patient). The most favorable financial condition for the spokes remained simple transfer of patients to the hub and no return (mean cost of $329/patient).
CONCLUSION: We describe an economic model which can be applied to any telestroke system to ensure the optimal balance between hub and spoke centers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development of Imminent Mortality Predictor for Advanced Cancer (IMPAC), a Tool to Predict Short-Term Mortality in Hospitalized Patients With Advanced Cancer.
Abstract: PURPOSE: End-of-life care for patients with advanced cancer is aggressive and costly. Oncologists inconsistently estimate life expectancy and address goals of care. Currently available prognostication tools are based on subjective clinical assessment. An objective prognostic tool could help oncologists and patients decide on a realistic plan for end-of-life care. We developed a predictive model (Imminent Mortality Predictor in Advanced Cancer [IMPAC]) for short-term mortality in hospitalized patients with advanced cancer.
METHODS: Electronic health record data from 669 patients with advanced cancer who were discharged from Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital were extracted. Statistical learning techniques were used to develop a tool to estimate survival probabilities. Patients were randomly split into training (70%) and validation (30%) sets 20 times. We tested the predictive properties of IMPAC for mortality at 30, 60, 90, and 180 days past the day of admission.
RESULTS: For mortality within 90 days at a 40% sensitivity level, IMPAC has close to 60% positive predictive value. Patients estimated to have a greater than 50% chance of death within 90 days had a median survival time of 47 days. Patients estimated to have a less than 50% chance of death had a median survival of 290 days. Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for IMPAC averaged greater than .70 for all time horizons tested. Estimated potential cost savings per patient was $15,413 (95% CI, $9,162 to $21,665) in 2014 constant dollars.
CONCLUSION: IMPAC, a novel prognostic tool, can generate life expectancy probabilities in real time and support oncologists in counseling patients about end-of-life care. Potentially avoidable costs are significant.
Label Included: 0

Title: STEADI: CDC's approach to make older adult fall prevention part of every primary care practice.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Primary care providers play a critical role in protecting older adult patients from one of the biggest threats to their health and independence-falls. A fall among an older adult patient cannot only be fatal or cause a devastating injury, but can also lead to problems that can effect a patient's overall quality of life.
METHODS: In response, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) developed the STEADI initiative to give health care providers the tools they need to help reduce their older adult patient's risk of a fall.
RESULTS: CDC's STEADI resources have been distributed widely and include practical materials and tools for health care providers and their patients that are designed to be integrated into every primary care practice.
CONCLUSION: As the population ages, the need for fall prevention efforts, such as CDC's STEADI, will become increasingly critical to safeguard the health of Americans.
PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: STEADI's electronic health records (EHRs), online trainings, assessment tools, and patient education materials are available at no-cost and can be downloaded online at www.cdc.gov/STEADI. Health care providers should look for opportunities to integrate STEADI materials into their practice, using a team-based approach, to help protect their older patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Technology Interventions for Nonadherence: New Approaches to an Old Problem.
Abstract: Nonadherence to asthma medications is well recognized. Interventions to improve adherence, however, have been only moderately successful and are not often adopted because of limited provider time, training, or institutional support. The potential for mobile communication technology to improve adherence has gathered sharply growing interest. Technology-based adherence tracking devices have been in existence for almost 3 decades, but have only recently reached a level of reliability and utility to be considered in allergy practice. Adherence intervention technology includes smartphones, apps, and a growing number of potential new asthma uses such as inhaler technique assessment, portable fractional exhaled nitric oxide devices, and GPS activity trackers with environmental contaminant alerts. As technology has advanced, new capability has emerged including drawing information from electronic health records to tailor automated interventions, give real-time feedback to patients, leverage incentives, utilize predictive logarithms that identify patients at exacerbation risk, and initiate an intervention. Technology development moves faster than clinical trial tests of these new interventions, and gaps in evidence will need to be closed. As researchers establish cost effectiveness, sustainability, and patient and provider acceptance, technology-based adherence intervention systems are likely to be increasingly adopted into small and large practice settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Adequacy of UTAUT in clinician adoption of health information systems in developing countries: The case of Cameroon.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Despite the great potential Health Information Systems (HIS) have in improving the quality of healthcare delivery services, very few studies have been carried out on the adoption of such systems in developing countries. This article is concerned with investigating the adequacy of UTAUT1 in determining factors that influence the adoption of HIS by clinicians in developing countries, based on the case of Cameroon.
METHODS: A paper-based questionnaire was distributed to clinicians in 4 out of 7 major public hospitals in Cameroon. A modified UTAUT was tested using structural equation modeling (SEM) method to identify the determinants of clinicians' intention to use HIS. Self-efficacy and cost-effectiveness were determinants used to extend the original UTAUT.
RESULTS: 228 out of 286 questionnaires were validated for this study. The original UTAUT performed poorly, explaining 12% of the variance in clinicians' intention to use HIS. Age was the only significant moderating factor, improving the model to 46%. Self-efficacy and cost effectiveness has no direct significant effect on HIS adoption in the context of this study.
CONCLUSIONS: The original UTAUT is not adequate in identifying factors that influence the adoption of HIS by clinicians in developing countries. Simplifying the model by using age as the only moderating factor significantly increases the model's ability to predict HIS adoption in this context. Thus, the younger clinicians are more likely and ready to adopt HIS than the older ones. Context-specific should also be used to increase the explanatory power of UTAUT in any given context.
Label Included: 0

Title: Teledermatology: Kids are not just little people.
Abstract: Teledermatology has emerged as a promising solution for pediatric and adult patients accessing dermatologic care in a health care environment fraught with barriers to access. Teledermatology has been extensively evaluated in terms of diagnostic accuracy, clinical outcomes, patient and provider satisfaction, and costs, relative to traditional health care delivery models. Current research indicates that teledermatology is effective and efficient in diagnosis and management of skin diseases. The majority of studies on the subject, however, rely on adult patient data. Pediatric patients, with their unique clinical features and challenges, may interact with telemedicine differently than their adult counterparts. Maximizing the benefits of teledermatology in pediatric dermatologic care is dependent on future research. We review and analyze the commonalities and differences between pediatric and adult patient care using teledermatology.
Label Included: 0

Title: Electronic Health Record Driven Prediction for Gestational Diabetes Mellitus in Early Pregnancy.
Abstract: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is conventionally confirmed with oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in 24 to 28 weeks of gestation, but it is still uncertain whether it can be predicted with secondary use of electronic health records (EHRs) in early pregnancy. To this purpose, the cost-sensitive hybrid model (CSHM) and five conventional machine learning methods are used to construct the predictive models, capturing the future risks of GDM in the temporally aggregated EHRs. The experimental data sources from a nested case-control study cohort, containing 33,935 gestational women in West China Second Hospital. After data cleaning, 4,378 cases and 50 attributes are stored and collected for the data set. Through selecting the most feasible method, the cost parameter of CSHM is adapted to deal with imbalance of the dataset. In the experiment, 3940 samples are used for training and the rest 438 samples for testing. Although the accuracy of positive samples is barely acceptable (62.16%), the results suggest that the vast majority (98.4%) of those predicted positive instances are real positives. To our knowledge, this is the first study to apply machine learning models with EHRs to predict GDM, which will facilitate personalized medicine in maternal health management in the future.
Label Included: 0

Title: Knowledge graph prediction of unknown adverse drug reactions and validation in electronic health records.
Abstract: Unknown adverse reactions to drugs available on the market present a significant health risk and limit accurate judgement of the cost/benefit trade-off for medications. Machine learning has the potential to predict unknown adverse reactions from current knowledge. We constructed a knowledge graph containing four types of node: drugs, protein targets, indications and adverse reactions. Using this graph, we developed a machine learning algorithm based on a simple enrichment test and first demonstrated this method performs extremely well at classifying known causes of adverse reactions (AUC 0.92). A cross validation scheme in which 10% of drug-adverse reaction edges were systematically deleted per fold showed that the method correctly predicts 68% of the deleted edges on average. Next, a subset of adverse reactions that could be reliably detected in anonymised electronic health records from South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust were used to validate predictions from the model that are not currently known in public databases. High-confidence predictions were validated in electronic records significantly more frequently than random models, and outperformed standard methods (logistic regression, decision trees and support vector machines). This approach has the potential to improve patient safety by predicting adverse reactions that were not observed during randomised trials.
Label Included: 0

Title: An integrated digital/clinical approach to smoking cessation in lung cancer screening: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Delivering effective tobacco dependence treatment that is feasible within lung cancer screening (LCS) programs is crucial for realizing the health benefits and cost savings of screening. Large-scale trials and systematic reviews have demonstrated that digital cessation interventions (i.e. web-based and text message) are effective, sustainable over the long-term, scalable, and cost-efficient. Use of digital technologies is commonplace among older adults, making this a feasible approach within LCS programs. Use of cessation treatment has been improved with models that proactively connect smokers to treatment rather than passive referrals. Proactive referral to cessation treatment has been advanced through healthcare systems changes such as modifying the electronic health record to automatically link smokers to treatment.
METHODS: This study evaluates the impact of a proactive enrollment strategy that links LCS-eligible smokers with an evidence-based intervention comprised of a web-based (WEB) program and integrated text messaging (TXT) in a three-arm randomized trial with repeated measures at one, three, six, and 12 months post randomization. The primary outcome is biochemically confirmed abstinence at 12 months post randomization. We will randomize 1650 smokers who present for a clinical LCS to: (1) a usual care control condition (UC) which consists of Ask-Advise-Refer; (2) a digital (WEB + TXT) cessation intervention; or (3) a digital cessation intervention combined with tobacco treatment specialist (TTS) counseling (WEB + TXT + TTS).
DISCUSSION: The scalability and sustainability of a digital intervention may represent the most cost-effective and feasible approach for LCS programs to proactively engage large numbers of smokers in effective cessation treatment. We will also evaluate the impact and cost-effectiveness of adding proven clinical intervention provided by a TTS. We expect that a combined digital/clinical intervention will yield higher quit rates than digital alone, but that it may not be as cost-effective or feasible for LCS programs to implement. This study is innovative in its use of interoperable, digital technologies to deliver a sustainable, scalable, high-impact cessation intervention and to facilitate its integration within clinical practice. It will add to the growing knowledge base about the overall effectiveness of digital interventions and their role in the healthcare delivery system.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03084835 . Registered on 9 March 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: When has service provision for transient ischaemic attack improved enough? A discrete event simulation economic modelling study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine the impact of transient ischaemic attack (TIA) service modification in two hospitals on costs and clinical outcomes.
DESIGN: Discrete event simulation model using data from routine electronic health records from 2011.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with suspected TIA were followed from symptom onset to presentation, referral to specialist clinics, treatment and subsequent stroke.
INTERVENTIONS: Included existing versus previous (less same day clinics) and hypothetical service reconfiguration (7-day service with less availability of clinics per day).
OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome of the model was the prevalence of major stroke after TIA. Secondary outcomes included service costs (including those of treating subsequent stroke) and time to treatment and attainment of national targets for service provision (proportion of high-risk patients (according to ABCD2 score) seen within 24 hours).
RESULTS: The estimated costs of previous service provision for 490 patients (aged 74±12 years, 48.9% female and 23.6% high risk) per year at each site were £340 000 and £368 000, respectively. This resulted in 31% of high-risk patients seen within 24 hours of referral (47/150) with a median time from referral to clinic attendance/treatment of 1.15 days (IQR 0.93-2.88). The costs associated with the existing and hypothetical services decreased by £5000 at one site and increased £21 000 at the other site. Target attainment was improved to 79% (118/150). However, the median time to clinic attendance was only reduced to 0.85 days (IQR 0.17-0.99) and thus no appreciable impact on the modelled incidence of major stroke was observed (10.7 per year, 99% CI 10.5 to 10.9 (previous service) vs 10.6 per year, 99% CI 10.4 to 10.8 (existing service)).
CONCLUSIONS: Reconfiguration of services for TIA is effective at increasing target attainment, but in services which are already working efficiently (treating patients within 1-2 days), it has little estimated impact on clinical outcomes and increased investment may not be worthwhile.
Label Included: 0

Title: Time Gain Needed for In-Ambulance Telemedicine: Cost-Utility Model.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stroke is a very time-sensitive pathology, and many new solutions target the optimization of prehospital stroke care to improve the stroke management process. In-ambulance telemedicine, defined by live bidirectional audio-video between a patient and a neurologist in a moving ambulance and the automated transfer of vital parameters, is a promising new approach to speed up and improve the quality of acute stroke care. Currently, no evidence exists on the cost effectiveness of in-ambulance telemedicine.
OBJECTIVE: We aim to develop a first cost effectiveness model for in-ambulance telemedicine and use this model to estimate the time savings needed before in-ambulance telemedicine becomes cost effective.
METHODS: Current standard stroke care is compared with current standard stroke care supplemented with in-ambulance telemedicine using a cost-utility model measuring costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) from a health care perspective. We combine a decision tree with a Markov model. Data from the UZ Brussel Stroke Registry (2282 stroke patients) and linked hospital claims data at individual level are combined with literature data to populate the model. A 2-way sensitivity analysis varying both implementation costs and time gain is performed to map the different cost-effective combinations and identify the time gain needed for cost effectiveness and dominance. For several modeled time gains, the cost-effectiveness acceptability curve is calculated and mapped in 1 figure.
RESULTS: Under the base-case scenario (implementation cost of US $159,425) and taking a lifetime horizon into account, in-ambulance telemedicine is a cost-effective strategy compared to standard stroke care alone starting from a time gain of 6 minutes. After 12 minutes, in-ambulance telemedicine becomes dominant, and this results in a mean decrease of costs by US -$30 (95% CI -$32 to -$29) per patient with 0.00456 (95% CI 0.00448 to 0.00463) QALYs on average gained per patient. In over 82% of all probabilistic simulations, in-ambulance telemedicine remains under the cost-effectiveness threshold of US $47,747.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model suggests that in-ambulance telemedicine can be cost effective starting from a time gain of 6 minutes and becomes a dominant strategy after approximately 15 minutes. This indicates that in-ambulance telemedicine has the potential to become a cost-effective intervention assuming time gains in clinical implementations are realized in the future.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluation of Teledentistry in Cleft Lip and Palate Patients.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the use of Teledentistry (TD) in delivering specialist dental services at the Royal Children's Hospital (RCH) for rural and regional patients and to conduct an economic evaluation by building a decision model to estimate the costs and effectiveness of Teledental consultations compared with standard consultations at the RCH.
METHODS: A model-based analysis was conducted to determine the potential costs of implementing TD at the RCH. The outcome measure was timely consultations (whether the patient presented within an appropriate time according to the recommended schedule). Dental records at the RCH of those who presented for orthodontic or pediatric dental consultations were assessed. A cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA), comparing TD with the traditional method of consultation, was conducted. One-way sensitivity analysis was performed to test the robustness of the results. Results and Materials: A total of 367 TD appropriate consultations were identified, of which 241 were timely (65.7%). The mean cost of a RCH consultation was A$431.29, with the mean TD consult costing A$294.35. This represents a cost saving of A$136.95 per appointment. The CEA found TD to be a dominant option, with cost savings of A$3,160.81 for every additional timely consult. The model indicated that 36.7 days of clinic time may be freed up at the RCH to treat other patients and expand capacity. These results were robust when performing one-way sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSION: When taking a societal perspective, the implementation of TD is likely to be a cost-effective alternative compared with the standard practice of face-to-face consultation at the RCH.
Label Included: 0

Title: The rationale and design of reduction of uncontrolled hypertension by Remote Monitoring and Telemedicine (REMOTE) study.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Although self-measurement of home blood pressure (HBP) is common in Japan and HBP telemonitoring via the Internet is possible, whether telemonitoring improves HBP control better than conventional practice remains unclear. Furthermore, hypertension care with online communication using telemonitored HBP is feasible, whereas the efficacy and safety of such telemedicine have not been established. We aim to compare traditional care, care with office visits using HBP telemonitoring, and antihypertensive telemedicine based on HBP telemonitoring.
METHODS AND DESIGN: In total, 444 patients with uncontrolled hypertension will be recruited and randomly assigned to three groups: (1) control: usual care with office visits and HBP self-report, (2) telemonitoring: weekly assessment of transmitted HBP by physicians and treatment adjustment upon office visits, or (3) telemedicine: online communication instead of office visits to adjust medication using telemonitored HBP. Primary outcome is the time to control of HBP, and secondary outcomes include achieved HBP levels, adherence, treatment intensity, adverse events, patient satisfaction and cost-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: Hypertension care with telemonitoring and telemedicine are expected to require shorter time to achieve HBP control compared to usual care. Combining HBP telemonitoring with telemedicine may lower the hurdles for starting and persisting to hypertension treatment and eventually reduce cardiovascular events.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of a nurse-led home and clinic-based secondary prevention programme to prevent progressive cardiac dysfunction in high-risk individuals: The Nurse-led Intervention for Less Chronic Heart Failure (NIL-CHF) randomized controlled study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of a long-term, nurse-led, multidisciplinary programme of home/clinic visits in preventing progressive cardiac dysfunction in patients at risk of developing de novo chronic heart failure (CHF).
METHODS: A trial-based analysis was conducted alongside a pragmatic, single-centre, open-label, randomized controlled trial of 611 patients (mean age: 66 years) with subclinical cardiovascular diseases (without CHF) discharged to home from an Australian tertiary referral hospital. A nurse-led home and clinic-based programme (NIL-CHF intervention, n = 301) was compared with standard care ( n=310) in terms of life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and healthcare costs. The uncertainty around the incremental cost and QALYs was quantified by bootstrap simulations and displayed on a cost-effectiveness plane.
RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 4.2 years, there were no significant between-group differences in life-years (-0.056, p=0.488) and QALYs (-0.072, p=0.399), which were lower in the NIL-CHF group. The NIL-CHF group had slightly lower all-cause hospitalization costs (AUD$2943 per person; p=0.219), cardiovascular-related hospitalization costs (AUD$1142; p=0.592) and a more pronounced reduction in emergency/unplanned hospitalization costs (AUD$4194 per person; p=0.024). When the cost of intervention was added to all-cause, cardiovascular and emergency-related readmissions, the reductions in the NIL-CHF group were AUD$2742 ( p=0.313), AUD$941 ( p=0.719) and AUD$3993 ( p=0.046), respectively. At a willingness-to-pay threshold of AUD$50,000/QALY, the probability of the NIL-CHF intervention being better-valued was 19%.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with standard care, the NIL-CHF intervention was not a cost-effective strategy as life-years and QALYs were slightly lower in the NIL-CHF group. However, it was associated with modest reductions in emergency/unplanned readmission costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Text messages to increase attendance to follow-up cervical cancer screening appointments among HPV-positive Tanzanian women (Connected2Care): study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer is a major health concern in Tanzania, caused by poor attendance for cervical cancer screening and follow-up of women at risk. Mobile telephone health interventions are proven effective tools to improve health behaviour in African countries. So far, no knowledge exists on how such interventions may perform in relation to cervical cancer screening in low-income settings. This study aims to assess the degree to which a Short Message Service (SMS) intervention can increase attendance at appointments among women who have tested positive for high-risk (HR) Human Papillomavirus (HPV) during cervical cancer screening.
METHODS/DESIGN: Connected2Care is a non-blinded, multicentre, parallel-group, randomised controlled trial. Tanzanian women testing positive to HR HPV at inclusion are randomly assigned in an allocation ratio of 1:1 to the SMS intervention or the control group (standard care). In a period of 10 months, the intervention group will receive 15 one-directional health educative text messages and SMS reminders for their appointment. The total sample size will be 700 with 350 women in each study arm. Primary outcome is attendance rate for follow-up. Secondary objectives are cost-effectiveness, measured through incremental ratios, and knowledge of cervical cancer by a 16-item true/false scale questionnaire at baseline and follow-up. Barriers against implementing the intervention will be assessed in a mixed-methods sub-population study.
DISCUSSION: This study may provide information on the potential effects, costs, and barriers in implementing an SMS intervention targeting a group of women who are followed up after testing positive for HR HPV and are, therefore, at increased risk of developing cervical cancer. This can guide decision-makers on the effective use of mobile technology in a low-income setting. Trial status: recruiting.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, ID: NCT02509702 . Registered on 15 June 2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: Reducing hospital admissions in remote Australia through the establishment of a palliative and chronic disease respite facility.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There are limited respite services for palliative care patients and their families in the Northern Territory (NT). The high prevalence of complex chronic diseases, limited access to primary care services, and the poor living situations of many Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians result in high hospitalisation rates and pressure on tertiary health services. Palliative Care NT identified a need for a flexible, community based, culturally appropriate respite service in Alice Springs. It was of particular interest to assess the impact of the respite service on the extent to which hospital resources were accessed by this population of patients.
METHODS: Respite service use and hospital use data were collected over two time periods: the 12 months prior to the establishment of the service; and the first 10 months of the operation of the service. The financial implications of the facility were assessed in terms of the National Weighted Activity Unit (NWAU). Of primary interest in this study was the impact of the respite service on admissions to the Emergency Department (ED), to the Wards, and to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The amount of ventilator hours consumed was also of interest.
RESULTS: Overall, there was a mean cost saving of $1882.50 per episode for hospital admissions with a reduction in: hospital admissions; mean length of stay; Intensive Care Unit (ICU) hours; and ventilator hours.
CONCLUSIONS: The establishment of the respite service has met an important and unmet need in Alice Springs: provision of respite where none has existed before. The service did assist with savings to the health department which could contribute to the cost of the facility over time. Two features of the respite facility that may have contributed to the savings generated were the enhanced coordination of care for patients with complex chronic diseases, as well as improved medication compliance and symptom management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home is where the future is: The BrightFocus Foundation consensus panel on dementia care.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: A national consensus panel was convened to develop recommendations on future directions for home-based dementia care (HBDC).
METHODS: The panel summarized advantages and challenges of shifting to HBDC as the nexus of care and developed consensus-based recommendations.
RESULTS: The panel developed five core recommendations: (1) HBDC should be considered the nexus of new dementia models, from diagnosis to end of life in dementia; (2) new payment models are needed to support HBDC and reward integration of care; (3) a diverse new workforce that spans the care continuum should be prepared urgently; (4) new technologies to promote communication, monitoring/safety, and symptoms management must be tested, integrated, and deployed; and (5) targeted dissemination efforts for HBDC must be employed.
DISCUSSION: HBDC represents a promising paradigm shift to improve care for those living with dementia and their family caregivers: these recommendations provide a framework to chart a course forward for HBDC.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Consultation Phone Service for Patients With Total Joint Arthroplasty May Reduce Unnecessary Emergency Department Visits.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Different measures for reducing costs after total joint arthroplasty (TJA) have gained attention lately. At our institution, a free-of-charge consultation phone service was initiated that targeted patients with TJA. This service aimed at reducing unnecessary emergency department (ED) visits and, thus, potentially improving the cost-effectiveness of TJAs. To our knowledge, a similar consultation service had not been described previously. We aimed at examining the rates and reasons for early postdischarge phone calls and evaluating the efficacy of this consultation service.
METHODS: During a 2-month period, we gathered information on every call received by the consultation phone service from patients with TJAs within 90 days of the index TJA procedure. Patients were followed for 2 weeks after making a call to detect major complications and self-initiated ED visits. Data were collected from electronic medical charts regarding age, gender, type of surgery, date of discharge, and length of hospital stay.
RESULTS: We analyzed 288 phone calls. Calls were mostly related to medication (41%), wound complications (17%), and mobilization issues (15%). Most calls were resolved in the phone consultation. Few patients (13%) required further evaluation in the ED. The consultation service failed to detect the need for an ED visit in 2 cases (0.7%) that required further care.
CONCLUSION: The consultation phone service clearly benefitted patients with TJAs. The service reduced the number of unnecessary ED visits and functioned well in detecting patients who required further care. Most postoperative concerns were related to prescribed medications, wound complications, and mobilization issues.
Label Included: 0

Title: Do surveys with paper and electronic devices differ in quality and cost? Experience from the Rufiji Health and demographic surveillance system in Tanzania.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Data entry at the point of collection using mobile electronic devices may make data-handling processes more efficient and cost-effective, but there is little literature to document and quantify gains, especially for longitudinal surveillance systems.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the potential of mobile electronic devices compared with paper-based tools in health data collection.
METHODS: Using data from 961 households from the Rufiji Household and Demographic Survey in Tanzania, the quality and costs of data collected on paper forms and electronic devices were compared. We also documented, using qualitative approaches, field workers, whom we called 'enumerators', and households' members on the use of both methods. Existing administrative records were combined with logistics expenditure measured directly from comparison households to approximate annual costs per 1,000 households surveyed.
RESULTS: Errors were detected in 17% (166) of households for the paper records and 2% (15) for the electronic records (p < 0.001). There were differences in the types of errors (p = 0.03). Of the errors occurring, a higher proportion were due to accuracy in paper surveys (79%, 95% CI: 72%, 86%) compared with electronic surveys (58%, 95% CI: 29%, 87%). Errors in electronic surveys were more likely to be related to completeness (32%, 95% CI 12%, 56%) than in paper surveys (11%, 95% CI: 7%, 17%).The median duration of the interviews ('enumeration'), per household was 9.4 minutes (90% central range 6.4, 12.2) for paper and 8.3 (6.1, 12.0) for electronic surveys (p = 0.001). Surveys using electronic tools, compared with paper-based tools, were less costly by 28% for recurrent and 19% for total costs. Although there were technical problems with electronic devices, there was good acceptance of both methods by enumerators and members of the community.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support the use of mobile electronic devices for large-scale longitudinal surveys in resource-limited settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: ETHICS OF SMART HOUSE WELFARE TECHNOLOGY FOR OLDER ADULTS: A SYSTEMATIC LITERATURE REVIEW.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The University College of Southeast Norway has an on-going project to develop a smart house welfare system to allow older adults and people with disabilities to remain in their homes for as long as they wish in safe, dignified, living conditions.
OBJECTIVES: This article reviews reported ethical challenges to implementing smart houses for older adults.
METHODS: A systematic literature review identified twenty-four articles in English, French, Spanish, and Norwegian, which were analyzed and synthesized using Hofmann's question list to investigate the reported ethical challenges.
RESULTS: Smart houses offer a promising way to improve access to home care for older adults and people with disabilities. However, important ethical challenges arise when implementing smart houses, including cost-effectiveness, privacy, autonomy, informed consent, dignity, safety, and trust.
CONCLUSIONS: The identified ethical challenges are important to consider when developing smart house systems. Due to the limitations of smart house technology, designers and users should be mindful that smart houses can achieve a safer and more dignified life-style but cannot solve all the challenges related to ageing, disabilities, and disease. At some point, smart houses can no longer help persons as they develop needs that smart houses cannot meet.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of an e-mental health intervention for patients with retinal exudative diseases who receive intraocular anti-VEGF injections (E-PsEYE): protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Because of the great potential of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors (anti-VEGF) for retinal exudative diseases, an increased number of patients receives this treatment. However, during this treatment, patients are subjected to frequent invasive intravitreal injections, and the effects on reversing the process of vision loss are uncertain, which may have negative consequences for patients' mental health. One in three patients experience at least mild symptoms of depression/anxiety. To support patients in dealing with these symptoms, an e-mental health intervention (called E-PsEYE) has been developed. E-PsEYE is based on cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) and contains nine modules. A stepped-care model with three steps will be used to deliver the intervention: (1) providing information and psychoeducation, (2) when symptoms of depression/anxiety persist, guided CBT is offered and supported by social workers from low vision rehabilitation services and (3) when symptoms still persist, patients are referred to their general practitioner.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: An economic evaluation from a healthcare and societal perspective will be conducted alongside a multicentre randomised controlled trial in two parallel groups to evaluate whether E-PsEYE is cost-effective in comparison with usual care. Participants (n=174) will be 50 years or older, have retinal exudative diseases, receive anti-VEGF treatment and have mild symptoms of depression/anxiety (assessed prior to randomisation). Main outcome measures are: depression (Patient Health Questionnaire-9), anxiety (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-Anxiety) and quality-adjusted life-years (determined with the Health Utility Index-3 and the EuroQol-5 dimensions). Five measurements take place: at baseline and after 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has been approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the VU University Medical Centre Amsterdam. It will provide new and essential information on the cost-effectiveness of an innovative intervention for a vulnerable population. Outcomes will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: http://www.trialregister.nl, identifier: NTR6337.
Label Included: 0

Title: Supported Discharge Teams for older people in hospital acute care: a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Supported Discharge Teams aim to help with the transition from hospital to home, whilst reducing hospital length-of-stay. Despite their obvious attraction, the evidence remains mixed, ranging from strong support for disease-specific interventions to less favourable results for generic services.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether older people referred to a Supported Discharge Team have: (i) reduced length-of-stay in hospital; (ii) reduced risk of hospital readmission; and (iii) reduced healthcare costs.
METHODS: Randomised controlled trial with follow-up to 6 months; 103 older women and 80 men (n = 183) (mean age 79), in hospital, were randomised to receive either Supported Discharge Team or usual care. Home-based rehabilitation was delivered by trained Health Care Assistants up to four times a day, 7 days a week, under the guidance of registered nurses, allied health and geriatricians for up to 6 weeks.
RESULTS: Participants randomised to the Supported Discharge Team spent less time in hospital during the index admission (mean 15.7 days) in comparison to usual care (mean 21.6 days) (mean difference 5.9: 95% CI 0.6, 11.3 days: P = 0.03) and spent less time in hospital in the 6 months following discharge home. Supported discharge group costs were calculated at mean NZ$10,836 (SD NZ$12,087) compared to NZ$16,943 (SD NZ$22,303) in usual care.
CONCLUSION: A Supported Discharge Team can provide an effective means of discharging older people home early from hospital and can make a cost-effective contribution to managing increasing demand for hospital beds.
Label Included: 0

Title: Re: A Cost Comparison for Telehealth Utilization in the Kidney Transplant Waitlist Evaluation Process.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: A comparative analysis of clinical outcomes and disposable costs of different catheter ablation methods for the treatment of atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Catheter ablation of atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) is a commonly performed electrophysiology (EP) procedure. Few data exist comparing conventional (CONV) versus novel ablation strategies from both clinical and direct cost perspectives. We sought to investigate the disposable costs and clinical outcomes associated with three different ablation methodologies used in the ablation of AVNRT.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of AVNRT ablations performed at Augusta University Medical Center from 2006 to 2014. A total of 183 patients were identified. Three different ablation techniques were compared: CONV manual radiofrequency (RF) (n=60), remote magnetic navigation (RMN)-guided RF (n=67), and cryoablation (CRYO) (n=56).
RESULTS: Baseline demographics did not differ between the three groups except for a higher prevalence of cardiomyopathy in the RMN group (p<0.01). The clinical end point of interest was recurrent AVNRT following the index ablation procedure. A significantly higher number of recurrent AVNRT cases occurred in the CRYO group as compared to CONV and RMN (p=0.003; OR =7.75) groups. Cost-benefit analysis showed both CONV and RMN to be dominant compared to CRYO. Cost-minimization analysis demonstrated the least expensive ablation method to be CONV (mean disposable catheter cost = CONV US$2340; CRYO US$3515; RMN US$5190). Despite comparable clinical outcomes, the incremental cost of RMN over CONV averaged US$3094 per procedure.
CONCLUSION: AVNRT ablation using either CONV or RMN techniques is equally effective and associated with lower AVNRT recurrence rates than CRYO. CONV ablation carries significant disposable cost savings as compared to RMN, despite similar efficacy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Systematic Review on the Effects of Serious Games and Wearable Technology Used in Rehabilitation of Patients With Traumatic Bone and Soft Tissue Injuries.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects on functional outcomes and treatment adherence of wearable technology and serious games (ie, interactive computer applications with specific purposes useful in the "real world") currently used in physical rehabilitation of patients after traumatic bone and soft tissue injuries.
DATA SOURCES: PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, and Current Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature were searched without publication date restrictions for the terms wearable, serious game, videogame or mobile application, and rehabilitation, exercise therapy, and physiotherapy.
STUDY SELECTION: The search yielded 2704 eligible articles, which were screened by 2 independent reviewers. Studies comparing serious games to standard therapy were included.
DATA EXTRACTION: Methodology and results of the studies were critically appraised in conformity with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Twelve articles were included, all of which tested "off-the-shelf" games. No studies on "wearable-controlled" games or games specifically developed for rehabilitation could be included. Medical conditions included postoperative rehabilitation and acute traumatic injuries. All studies were of low to moderate quality. Only 2 studies found beneficial effects of serious games compared to conventional therapy. One of 3 studies reporting pain scores found beneficial effects of serious games compared to physiotherapy. One of 5 trials reporting treatment adherence found a statistically significant advantage in the game group compared to conventional physiotherapy. Because of heterogeneity in study design and outcome measures, pooling of data was not possible.
CONCLUSIONS: Serious games seem a safe alternative or addition to conventional physiotherapy after traumatic bone and soft tissue injuries. Future research should determine their validity and effectiveness in rehabilitation therapy, next to their cost-effectiveness and effect on treatment adherence.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical Documentation in an Era of Increasing Transparency: The Impact of Electronic Portals on Care.
Abstract: Electronic health records (EHRs) and consumer health portals have implications for improving the quality and cost-effectiveness of healthcare and make it much easier for patients and families to access health information in a timely and convenient manner. However, the accessibility of information afforded by EHRs and health portals changes the dynamic of control over health information in very significant ways. Institutions and their clinicians have typically been the caretakers of these documents; therefore, the introduction of portals represents a major cultural shift in healthcare. The efforts of both clinicians and patients are needed to effectively make this shift, as the implementation of new technology is uniquely challenging within a healthcare setting. An interactive workshop was facilitated to understand clinicians' perceived challenges of this shift with a specific focus on the implications of increased transparency and patients' increased access to health information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Systematic review: advice lines for patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Advice lines for patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) have been introduced internationally. However, only a few publications have described the advice line service and evaluated the efficiency of it with many results presented as conference posters. A systematic synthesis of evidence is needed and the aim of this article was to systematically review the evidence of IBD advice lines.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A broad systematic literature search was performed to identify relevant studies addressing the effect of advice lines. The process of selection of the retrieved studies was undertaken in two phases. In phase one, all abstracts were review by two independent reviewers. In phase two, the full text of all included studies were independently reviewed by two reviewers. The included studies underwent quality assessment and data synthesis.
RESULTS: Ten published studies and 10 congress abstracts were included in the review. The studies were heterogeneous both in scientific quality and in the focus of the study. No rigorous evidence was found to support that advice lines improve disease activity in IBD and correspondingly no studies reported worsening in disease activity. Advice lines were found to be health economically beneficial with clear indications of the positive impact of advice lines from the patient perspective.
CONCLUSION: The levels of evidence of the effect of advice lines in IBD are low. However, the use of advice lines was found to be safe, and cost-effective. Where investigated, patients with IBD overwhelmingly welcome an advice line with high levels of patient satisfaction reported.
Label Included: 0

Title: A hybrid cardiac rehabilitation is as effective as a hospital-based program in reducing chest pain intensity and discomfort.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Health care services effort to provide alternative cardiac rehabilitation (CR) models to serve patients according to their preferences and needs. So, the present study aimed to assess and compare the effects of hospital-based and hybrid CR programs on chest pain intensity and discomfort in cardiac surgery patients.
METHODS: In this prospective study, 110 cardiac surgery patients were invited to the CR department of a hospital in the western part of Iran between March and July 2016. Patients were divided into two groups: hospital-based and hybrid CR. The hospital-based program included 26 sessions, and the hybrid program included 10 training sessions and exercise. The Brief Pain Inventory and Pain Discomfort Scale were used as research instrument, and data were analyzed using the paired t-test and ANCOVA.
RESULTS: The results indicated that both hospital-based and hybrid CR are effective in reducing the chest pain intensity and discomfort of cardiac surgery patients (P < 0.05). In addition, the comparison of scores before and after treatment using ANCOVA shows that no significant differences were observed between the two programs (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Traditional hospital-based CR delivery is still the first choice for treatment in developing countries. However, hybrid CR is as effective as a hospital-based program in reducing pain components and it includes only 38% of the total cost in comparison to hospital-based delivery. So, we recommend using hybrid CR according with the recommendations of American Heart Association about using CR for the management of angina symptoms.
Label Included: 0

Title: Explaining regional variation in home care use by demand and supply variables.
Abstract: In the Netherlands, home care services like district nursing and personal assistance are provided by private service provider organizations and covered by private health insurance companies which bear legal responsibility for purchasing these services. To improve value for money, their procurement increasingly replaces fee-for-service payments with population based budgets. Setting appropriate population budgets requires adaptation to the legitimate needs of the population, whereas historical costs are likely to be influenced by supply factors as well, not all of which are necessarily legitimate. Our purpose is to explain home care costs in terms of demand and supply factors. This allows for adjusting historical cost patterns when setting population based budgets. Using expenses claims of 60 Dutch municipalities, we analyze eight demand variables and five supply variables with a multiple regression model to explain variance in the number of clients per inhabitant, costs per client and costs per inhabitant. Our models explain 69% of variation in the number of clients per inhabitant, 28% of costs per client and 56% of costs per inhabitant using demand factors. Moreover, we find that supply factors explain an additional 17-23% of variation. Predictors of higher utilization are home care organizations that are integrated with intramural nursing homes, higher competition levels among home care organizations and the availability of complementary services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mental health and telemedicine in the acute care setting: Applications of telepsychiatry in the ED.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Do digital innovations for HIV and sexually transmitted infections work? Results from a systematic review (1996-2017).
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Digital innovations with internet/mobile phones offer a potential cost-saving solution for overburdened health systems with high service delivery costs to improve efficiency of HIV/STI (sexually transmitted infections) control initiatives. However, their overall evidence has not yet been appraised. We evaluated the feasibility and impact of all digital innovations for all HIV/STIs.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: All settings/all participants.
INTERVENTION: We classified digital innovations into (1) mobile health-based (mHealth: SMS (short message service)/phone calls), (2) internet-based mobile and/or electronic health (mHealth/eHealth: social media, avatar-guided computer programs, websites, mobile applications, streamed soap opera videos) and (3) combined innovations (included both SMS/phone calls and internet-based mHealth/eHealth).
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Feasibility, acceptability, impact.
METHODS: We searched databases MEDLINE via PubMed, Embase, Cochrane CENTRAL and Web of Science, abstracted data, explored heterogeneity, performed a random effects subgroup analysis.
RESULTS: We reviewed 99 studies, 63 (64%) were from America/Europe, 36 (36%) from Africa/Asia; 79% (79/99) were clinical trials; 84% (83/99) evaluated impact. Of innovations, mHealth based: 70% (69/99); internet based: 21% (21/99); combined: 9% (9/99).All digital innovations were highly accepted (26/31; 84%), and feasible (20/31; 65%). Regarding impacted measures, mHealth-based innovations (SMS) significantly improved antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence (pooled OR=2.15(95%CI: 1.18 to 3.91)) and clinic attendance rates (pooled OR=1.76(95%CI: 1.28, 2.42)); internet-based innovations improved clinic attendance (6/6), ART adherence (4/4), self-care (1/1), while reducing risk (5/5); combined innovations increased clinic attendance, ART adherence, partner notifications and self-care. Confounding (68%) and selection bias (66%) were observed in observational studies and attrition bias in 31% of clinical trials.
CONCLUSION: Digital innovations were acceptable, feasible and generated impact. A trend towards the use of internet-based and combined (internet and mobile) innovations was noted. Large scale-up studies of high quality, with new integrated impact metrics, and cost-effectiveness are needed. Findings will appeal to all stakeholders in the HIV/STI global initiatives space.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of clinical pharmacist services delivered via telemedicine in the outpatient or ambulatory care setting: A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Utilization of telemedicine allows pharmacists to extend the reach of clinical interventions, connecting them with patients and providers, but the overall impact of these services is under-studied.
OBJECTIVE: Identify the impact of clinical pharmacist telemedicine interventions on clinical outcomes, subsequently defined as clinical disease management, patient self-management, and adherence, in outpatient or ambulatory settings.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted from database inception through May 2016 in Medline, SCOPUS, and EMBASE. Broad terms "telemedicine", "telehealth", and "telephone" were used in combination with "pharmacist" or "pharmacy" and "telepharmacy". The search and extraction process followed PRISMA guidelines. Results were screened for pharmacist interventions and reviewed to identify studies in outpatient our ambulatory settings. Studies of non-clinical outcomes (i.e. dispensing or product preparation) and with no comparator were excluded. The final studies were categorized by types of outcomes reported: clinical disease management, patient self-management, and adherence.
RESULTS: Only 34 studies measured clinical outcomes against a comparator, consistent with the research question. The majority utilized scheduled models of care (n = 29). Telephone was the most common communication method (n = 25). The most utilized interventions were pharmacist-led telephonic clinics (n = 10). Most studies focused on chronic disease management in adults including hypertension, diabetes, anticoagulation, depression, hyperlipidemia, asthma, heart failure, HIV, PTSD, CKD, stroke, COPD and smoking cessation. Twenty-three studies had a positive impact with one reporting negative results. Higher positive impact rate was observed for scheduled (72.4%, 21/29) and continuous (100%, 2/2) models compared to responsive/reactive (25%, 1/4).
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical pharmacy telemedicine interventions in the outpatient or ambulatory setting, primarily via phone, have an overall positive impact on outcomes related to clinical disease management, patient self-management, and adherence in the management of chronic diseases. Commonalities among studies with positive impact included utilization of continuous or scheduled models via telephone, with frequent monitoring and interventions. Studies identified did not evaluate benefits of video capability over telephone or cost-effectiveness, both of which are useful directions for future study.
Label Included: 0

Title: Putting research in place: an innovative approach to providing contextualized evidence synthesis for decision makers.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Contextualized Health Research Synthesis Program (CHRSP), developed in 2007 by the Newfoundland and Labrador Centre for Applied Health Research, produces contextualized knowledge syntheses for health-system decision makers. The program provides timely, relevant, and easy-to-understand scientific evidence; optimizes evidence uptake; and, most importantly, attunes research questions and evidence to the specific context in which knowledge users must apply the findings.
METHODS: As an integrated knowledge translation (KT) method, CHRSP: Involves intensive partnerships with senior healthcare decision makers who propose priority research topics and participate on research teams; Considers local context both in framing the research question and in reporting the findings; Makes economical use of resources by utilizing a limited number of staff; Uses a combination of external and local experts; and Works quickly by synthesizing high-level systematic review evidence rather than primary studies. Although it was developed in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador, the CHRSP methodology is adaptable to a variety of settings with distinctive features, such as those in rural, remote, and small-town locations.
RESULTS: CHRSP has published 25 syntheses on priority topics chosen by the provincial healthcare system, including: Clinical and cost-effectiveness: telehealth, rural renal dialysis, point-of-care testing; Community-based health services: helping seniors age in place, supporting seniors with dementia, residential treatment centers for at-risk youth; Healthcare organization/service delivery: reducing acute-care length of stay, promoting flu vaccination among health workers, safe patient handling, age-friendly acute care; and Health promotion: diabetes prevention, promoting healthy dietary habits. These studies have been used by decision makers to inform local policy and practice decisions.
CONCLUSIONS: By asking the health system to identify its own priorities and to participate directly in the research process, CHRSP fully integrates KT among researchers and knowledge users in healthcare in Newfoundland and Labrador. This high level of decision-maker buy-in has resulted in a corresponding level of uptake. CHRSP studies have directly informed a number of policy and practice directions, including the design of youth residential treatment centers, a provincial policy on single-use medical devices, and most recently, the opening of the province's first Acute Care for the Elderly hospital unit.
Label Included: 0

Title: Successful outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy delivery via telemedicine.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Most outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy (OPAT) services use a hospital-based model of care in which patients remain in proximity to large hospitals facilitating clinical review. We aimed to evaluate clinical outcomes and complication rates for patients living in geographically isolated locations managed by telemedicine-supported OPAT. Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study.
RESULTS: Between 2011 and 2015, we delivered 88 episodes of care involving 83 adult patients resulting in 2261 days of OPAT. The median age was 56 years, 8 of 83 (10%) were indigenous Australian and the median Charlson comorbidity index score was 2 (IQR 1-4). The median distance of patients' residence from our hospital was 288 km (IQR 201-715) and the median duration on the programme was 26 days (IQR 14-34). Bone and joint infections accounted for 75% of infections treated. Favourable clinical outcomes (improvement or cure) were achieved in 87% of patients and the unplanned, OPAT-related readmission rate was 8%. Nineteen percent and 10% of patients had drug-related and line-related adverse effects, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite a complex case mix, our adverse event and readmission rates are similar to the published literature describing a non-telemedicine model to deliver OPAT. High rates of favourable clinical outcomes and likely cost benefits suggest that telemedicine-supported OPAT is an efficacious and safe substitute for inpatient care in our setting.
Label Included: 0

Title: Carer preferences for home support services in later stage dementia.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To examine the relative importance of different home support attributes from the perspective of carers of people with later-stage dementia.
METHOD: Preferences from 100 carers, recruited through carers' organisations, were assessed with a Discrete Choice Experiment (DCE) survey, administered online and by paper questionnaire. Attributes were informed by an evidence synthesis and lay consultations. A conditional logit model was used to estimate preference weights for the attributes within a home support 'package'.
RESULTS: The most preferred attributes were 'respite care, available regularly to fit your needs' (coefficient 1.29, p = < 0.001) and 'home care provided regularly for as long as needed' (coefficient 0.93, p = < 0.001). Cost had a significant effect with lower cost packages preferred. Findings were similar regardless of the method of administration, with respite care considered to be the most important attribute for all carers. Carers reported that completing the DCE had been a positive experience; however, feedback was mixed overall.
CONCLUSIONS: These carer preferences concur with emerging evidence on home support interventions for dementia. Respite care, home care and training on managing difficulties provided at home are important components. Carers' preferences revealed the daily challenges of caring for individuals with later stage dementia and the need for tailored and specialised home support.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of a Clinical Childhood Obesity Intervention.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness and population impact of the national implementation of the Study of Technology to Accelerate Research (STAR) intervention for childhood obesity.
METHODS: In the STAR cluster-randomized trial, 6- to 12-year-old children with obesity seen at pediatric practices with electronic health record (EHR)-based decision support for primary care providers and self-guided behavior-change support for parents had significantly smaller increases in BMI than children who received usual care. We used a microsimulation model of a national implementation of STAR from 2015 to 2025 among all pediatric primary care providers in the United States with fully functional EHRs to estimate cost, impact on obesity prevalence, and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The expected population reach of a 10-year national implementation is ∼2 million children, with intervention costs of $119 per child and $237 per BMI unit reduced. At 10 years, assuming maintenance of effect, the intervention is expected to avert 43 000 cases and 226 000 life-years with obesity at a net cost of $4085 per case and $774 per life-year with obesity averted. Limiting implementation to large practices and using higher estimates of EHR adoption improved both cost-effectiveness and reach, whereas decreasing the maintenance of the intervention's effect worsened the former.
CONCLUSIONS: A childhood obesity intervention with electronic decision support for clinicians and self-guided behavior-change support for parents may be more cost-effective than previous clinical interventions. Effective and efficient interventions that target children with obesity are necessary and could work in synergy with population-level prevention strategies to accelerate progress in reducing obesity prevalence.
Label Included: 1

Title: Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 Inhibitor Therapy: Payer Approvals and Rejections, and Patient Characteristics for Successful Prescribing.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitors (PCSK9i) are a novel class of medications for patients with familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease requiring additional lipid lowering beyond dietary measures and statin use. Because of the drugs' high cost, rates of prescription approval by payers may be low. We aimed to identify payer approval and rejection rates for PCSK9i prescriptions and the potential factors influencing these rates.
METHODS: This is a retrospective, descriptive cohort study using nationwide pharmacy claims linked to electronic medical records from a nationwide data warehouse. The data set includes >220 million patients from all 50 states and all payer types with 5140 distinct health plans. PCSK9i prescriptions were submitted for 51 466 patients in the pharmacy data set. The main outcome was approval or rejection of PCSK9i prescription claims. Factors associated with approval and rejection of these medications in the United States were assessed.
RESULTS: Among patients who were prescribed a PCSK9i, 47.0% were approved for coverage by the payer. Variables that were associated with PCSK9i approval included age >65 years (P<0.01), history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (P<0.01), prescription by a cardiologist or nonprimary care provider (P<0.01), statin intolerance (P=0.03), longer statin duration (P=0.01), and noncommercial payers (P<0.01). Higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were not associated with higher approval rates. Commercial third-party payers had the lowest approval rates (24.4%) and Medicare had the highest (60.9%).
CONCLUSIONS: Rates of approval for PCSK9i therapy are low, even for patients who appear to meet labeled indications. Although a combination of clinical characteristics increases the likelihood of approval, payer type is the most significant factor.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy of Telerehabilitation for Adults With Traumatic Brain Injury: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To identify and appraise studies evaluating the efficacy of telerehabilitation for adults with traumatic brain injury (TBI).
METHODS: A systematic search of Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature), and PsycINFO databases was conducted from January 1980 to April 23, 2017, for studies evaluating the efficacy of telerehabilitation for adults with TBI. Two reviewers independently assessed articles for eligibility and rated methodological quality using 16 criteria related to internal validity, descriptive, and statistical characteristics.
RESULTS: The review yielded 13 eligible studies, including 10 randomized controlled trials and 3 pre-/postgroup studies (n ≥ 10). These evaluated the feasibility and/or efficacy of telephone-based (10 studies) and Internet-based (3 studies) interventions. Overall, the evidence of efficacy was somewhat mixed. The most common study design evaluated the efficacy of telephone-based interventions relative to usual care, for which 4 of 5 randomized controlled trials reported positive effects at postintervention (d = 0.28-0.51). For these studies, improvements in global functioning, posttraumatic symptoms and sleep quality, and depressive symptoms were reported. The feasibility of Internet-based interventions was generally supported; however, the efficacy could not be determined because of insufficient studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Structured telephone interventions were found to be effective for improving particular outcomes following TBI. Controlled studies of Internet-based therapy and comparisons of the clinical and cost-effectiveness of in-person and telerehabilitation formats are recommended for future research.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-based telehealth service for swallowing and nutrition management following head and neck cancer treatment.
Abstract: Introduction Following (chemo)radiotherapy (C/RT) for head and neck cancer (HNC), patients return to hospital for regular outpatient reviews with speech pathology (SP) and nutrition and dietetics (ND) for acute symptom monitoring, nutritional management, and swallowing and communication rehabilitation. The aim of the current study was to determine the feasibility of a home-based telehealth model for delivering SP and ND reviews, to provide patients with more convenient access to these appointments. Methods Service outcomes, costs, and consumer satisfaction were examined across 30 matched participants: 15 supported via the standard model of care (SMOC), and 15 via the home-based telehealth model of care (TMOC). Results All patients were successfully managed via telehealth. The TMOC was more efficient, with a reduced number ( p < 0.003) and duration ( p < 0.01) of appointments required until discharge. Significant patient cost savings ( p = 0.002) were reported for the TMOC due to decreased travel requirements. While staff costs were reduced, additional telehealth equipment levies resulted in a lower but non-significant overall cost difference to the health service when using the TMOC. High satisfaction was reported by all participants attending the TMOC. Discussion The findings support the feasibility of a home-based telehealth model for conducting SP and ND reviews post C/RT for HNC.
Label Included: 0

Title: Case-mix tool, costs and effectiveness in improving primary care mental health and substance abuse services.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite its importance in improving care and developing services, high-quality data evaluating cost-effectiveness and services in different case-mix populations is scarce in primary care.
AIMS: The objective was to investigate the service use of those mental health and substance abuse patients, who use lots of services.
METHODS: Primary health care diagnosis-related groups (pDRG) is a tool to evaluate service provider system and improve efficiency, productivity and quality. We viewed all pDRG results available from the year 2015 concerning municipal mental health and substance abuse services.
RESULTS: In primary care mental health and substance abuse services, the most common ICD-10-codes were depression and substance abuse. One-fifth of patients produced 57% of costs. Their medium of appointments was 16 per year versus 6 per year of all patients. Only 54% of their diagnoses were recorded in the electronic health records versus 75% of all patients. They made 5.7 different pDRG episodes, including 1.8 episodes of depression, per patient. The average episode cost for this patient group was 301€.
CONCLUSIONS: pDRG makes health care production transparent also in mental health and substance abuse services. It is easy to identify patients, who use a lot of services and thus induce the majority of costs, and focus on their needs in managing and developing services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Six-year prevalence and incidence of diabetic retinopathy and cost-effectiveness of tele-ophthalmology in Manitoba.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diabetic retinopathy (DR) tele-ophthalmology screening program in Manitoba to determine prevalence and incidence of DR, as well as to estimate the program's cost-effectiveness.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 4676 patients with type 2 diabetes examined 9334 times from 2007 to 2013.
METHODS: Focused ophthalmic histories were recorded and examinations were performed by trained nurses, including visual acuities, intraocular pressure, and mydriatic 7 standard field stereoscopic fundus photography. Images were evaluated by retinal specialists according to the Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study criteria. DR prevalence and incidence were then calculated during the study period. Cost-effectiveness was estimated by comparing the cost of running the tele-ophthalmology program compared with the cost of screening the same volume of patients in-office.
RESULTS: The average prevalence of any DR in each year was 25.1%. The cumulative incidence of DR across 6 years was 17.1% (95% CI, 15.4%-18.7%). The average savings per tele-ophthalmology examination was $1007.
CONCLUSIONS: DR is highly prevalent among the studied population. Tele-ophthalmology provides a cost-effective means of monitoring patients as well as identifying new or treatable disease.
Label Included: 0

Title: Adopting Telemedicine for the Self-Management of Hypertension: Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Hypertension is a chronic condition that affects adults of all ages. In the United States, 1 in 3 adults has hypertension, and about half of the hypertensive population is adequately controlled. This costs the nation US $46 billion each year in health care services and medications required for treatment and missed workdays. Finding easier ways of managing this condition is key to successful treatment.
OBJECTIVE: A solution to reduce visits to physicians for chronic conditions is to utilize telemedicine. Research is limited on the effects of utilizing telemedicine in health care facilities. There are potential benefits for implementing telemedicine programs with patients dealing with chronic conditions. The purpose of this review was to weigh the facilitators against the barriers for implementing telemedicine.
METHODS: Searches were methodically conducted in the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature Complete (CINAHL Complete) via Elton B Stephens Company (EBSCO) and PubMed (which queries MEDLINE) to collect information about self-management of hypertension through the use of telemedicine.
RESULTS: Results identify facilitators and barriers corresponding to the implementation of self-management of hypertension using telemedicine. The most common facilitators include increased access, increase in health and quality, patient knowledge and involvement, technology growth with remote monitoring, cost-effectiveness, and increased convenience/ease. The most prevalent barriers include lack of evidence, self-management difficult to maintain, no long-term results/more areas to address, and long-term added workload commitment.
CONCLUSIONS: This review guides health care professionals in incorporating new practices and identifying the best methods to introduce telemedicine into their practices. Understanding the facilitators and barriers to implementation is important, as is understanding how these factors will impact a successful implementation of telemedicine in the area of self-management of hypertension.
Label Included: 0

Title: A multi-centre randomised trial to compare the effectiveness of geriatrician-led admission avoidance hospital at home versus inpatient admission.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is concern that existing models of acute hospital care will become unworkable as the health service admits an increasing number of frail older people with complex health needs, and that there is inadequate evidence to guide the planning of acute hospital level services. We aim to evaluate whether geriatrician-led admission avoidance to hospital at home is an effective alternative to hospital admission.
METHODS/DESIGN: We are conducting a multi-site randomised open trial of geriatrician-led admission avoidance hospital at home, compared with admission to hospital. We are recruiting older people with markers of frailty or prior dependence who have been referred to admission avoidance hospital at home for an acute medical event. This includes patients presenting with delirium, functional decline, dependence, falls, immobility or a background of dementia presenting with physical disease. Participants are randomised using a computerised random number generator to geriatrician-led admission avoidance hospital at home or a control group of inpatient admission in a 2:1 ratio in favour of the intervention. The primary endpoint 'living at home' (the inverse of death or living in a residential care setting) is measured at 6 months follow-up, and we also collect data on this outcome at 12 months. Secondary outcomes include the incidence of delirium, mortality, new long-term residential care, cognitive impairment, activities of daily living, quality of life and quality-adjusted survival, length of stay, readmission or transfer to hospital. We will conduct a parallel economic evaluation, and a process evaluation that includes an interview study to explore the experiences of patients and carers.
DISCUSSION: Health systems around the world are examining how to provide acute hospital-level care to older adults in greater numbers with a fixed or shrinking hospital resource. This trial is the first large multi-site randomised trial of geriatrician-led admission avoidance hospital at home, and will provide evidence on alternative models of healthcare for older people who require hospital admission.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN60477865 : Registered on 10 March 2014. Trial Sponsor: University of Oxford. Version 3.1, 14/06/2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Complexity of Chronic Conditions' Impact on End-of-Life Expense Trajectories of Medicare Decedents.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to determine if the pattern of monthly medical expense can be used to identify individuals at risk of dying, thus supporting providers in proactively engaging in advanced care planning discussions.
BACKGROUND: Identifying the right time to discuss end of life can be difficult. Improved predictive capacity has made it possible for nurse leaders to use large data sets to guide clinical decision making.
METHODS: We examined the patterns of monthly medical expense of Medicare beneficiaries with life-limiting illness during the last 24 months of life using analysis of variance, t tests, and stepwise hierarchical linear modeling.
RESULTS: In the final year of life, monthly medical expense increases rapidly for all disease groupings and forms distinct patterns of change.
CONCLUSION: Type of condition can be used to classify decedents into distinctly different cost trajectories. Conditions including chronic disease, system failure, or cancer may be used to identify patients who may benefit from supportive care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of home telehealth care on blood pressure control: A public healthcare centre model.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of home telehealth care combined with case management by public health nurses, in improving blood pressure control in patients with hypertension.
METHODS: This cohort study examined the data of patients with hypertension obtained from a telehealth service centre database, between July 2011- June 2012. Eligible patients were adults (≥40 years old) with both prehypertension and hypertension, living alone or in the remote suburbs of metropolitan areas. Demographic data were collected from 12 district public health centre in Taipei, Taiwan. Following enrolment, patients received an appropriate and validated home telehealth device kit for automatic blood pressure monitoring and automated modem via a telephone line or a desktop computer with Internet connection to enable data transmission between the patient's home and telehealth service centre. Patients were instructed to upload the measured data immediately every day. The study outcomes included blood pressure and home telehealth service utilisation.
RESULTS: Of the 432 patients recruited, 408 (94%) completed data collection. Linear regression analysis found an average 22.1 mm Hg reduction in systolic blood pressure after one year. The mean slope of systolic blood pressure was classified as decreased or non-decreased. An systolic blood pressure decreasing trend was observed in 52.2% patients, while 47.8% patients showed an increasing systolic blood pressure trend. Patients in the decreased systolic blood pressure group tended to be older ( p = 0. 0001), with a greater proportion of hypertension alarms ( p = 0. 001), improved self-blood pressure monitoring behaviour ( p = 0.009) and higher self-measured blood pressure monitoring frequency ( p = 0. 010). Patients in the decreased systolic blood pressure group had a higher self-measured blood pressure monitoring frequency (odds ratio = 0.95, 95% confidence interval, 0.91-0.99, p = 0. 013) than their counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: Home telehealth care combined with care management by public health nurses based in public health care centre was feasible and effective for improving blood pressure control among patients with hypertension. Further studies should conduct a thorough analysis of the cost-effectiveness of this intervention. A randomised controlled trial with a longer follow-up period is required to examine the effects of the improved home telehealth device kit on the care of patients with hypertension.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness of varenicline versus nicotine replacement therapy on long-term smoking cessation in primary care: a prospective cohort study of electronic medical records.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is limited evidence about the effectiveness of varenicline and nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) for long-term smoking cessation in primary care, or whether the treatment effectiveness differs by socioeconomic position (SEP). Therefore, we estimated the long-term effectiveness of varenicline versus NRT (> 2 years) on smoking cessation, and investigated whether effectiveness differs by SEP.
METHODS: This is a prospective cohort study of electronic medical records from 654 general practices in England, within the Clinical Practice Research Datalink, using three different analytical methods: multivariable logistic regression, propensity score matching and instrumental variable analyses. Exposure was prescription of varenicline versus NRT, and the primary outcome was smoking cessation at 2 years' follow-up; outcome was also assessed at 3, 6, and 9 months, and at 1 and 4 years after exposure. SEP was defined using the Index of Multiple Deprivation.
RESULTS: At 2 years, 28.8% (N = 20 362/70 610) of participants prescribed varenicline and 24.3% (N = 36 268/149 526) of those prescribed NRT quit; adjusted odds ratio was 1.26 [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.23 to 1.29], P < 0.0001. The association persisted for up to 4 years and was consistent across all analyses. We found little evidence that the effectiveness of varenicline differed greatly by SEP. However, patients from areas of higher deprivation were less likely to be prescribed varenicline; adjusted odds ratio was 0.91 (95% CI: 0.90 to 0.92), P < 0.0001.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients prescribed varenicline were more likely to be abstinent up to 4 years after first prescription than those prescribed NRT. In combination with other evidence, the results from this study may be used to update clinical guidelines on the use of varenicline for smoking cessation.
Label Included: 0

Title: The efficacy and stability of an information and communication technology-based centralized monitoring system of adherence to immunosuppressive medication in kidney transplant recipients: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Immunosuppression non-adherence in kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) not only increases the risk of medical intervention due to acute rejection and graft loss but burdens the socioeconomic system in the form of increased healthcare costs. An aggressive preemptive effort by healthcare professionals, geared to ensure adherence to immunosuppressants in KTRs, is significant and imperative.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study was designed as a prospective, open-label, multicenter, randomized controlled study aimed at evaluating the efficacy and stability of an information and communication technology (ICT)-based centralized monitoring system in boosting medication adherence in KTRs. One hundred fourteen KTRs registered throughout the year 2017 to 2018 are randomized into either the ICT-based centralized home monitoring system or to ambulatory follow-up. The planned follow-up duration is 6 months. The ICT-based centralized home monitoring system described consists of a smart pill box equipped with personal identification system, a home monitoring system, an electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) system, and a comprehensive clinical trial management system (CTMS). It alerts both patients and medical staff with texts and pill box alarms if there is a dosage/dosing time error or a missed dose. Medication adherence and transplant outcomes for the follow-up period are compared between the two groups, while patient satisfaction as well as the stability and cost-effectiveness of the ICT-based monitoring system are to be evaluated.
DISCUSSION: This on-going study is expected to determine if consistent use of the ICT-based centralized monitoring system described could maximize mediation adherence and subsequently enhance transplant outcomes in KTRs. Further, it would lay the foundation for successful implementation of this ICT-based monitoring system for effective management of medication adherence in KTRs.
TRIALS REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, Identifier: NCT03136588 . Registered on 20 April 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Use of Telepsychiatry to Provide Cost-Efficient Care During Pediatric Mental Health Emergencies.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated a videoconference-based psychiatric emergency consultation program (telepsychiatry) at geographically dispersed emergency department (ED) sites that are part of the network of care of an academic children's hospital system. The study compared program outcomes with those of usual care involving ambulance transport to the hospital for in-person psychiatric emergency consultation prior to disposition to inpatient care or discharge home.
METHODS: This study compared process outcomes in a cross-sectional, pre-post design at five network-of-care sites before and after systemwide implementation of telepsychiatry consultation in 2015. Clinical records on 494 pediatric psychiatric emergencies included ED length of stay, disposition/discharge, and hospital system charges. Satisfaction surveys regarding telepsychiatry consultations were completed by providers and parents or guardians.
RESULTS: Compared with children who received usual care, children who received telepsychiatry consultations had significantly shorter median ED lengths of stay (5.5 hours and 8.3 hours, respectively, p<.001) and lower total patient charges ($3,493 and $8,611, p<.001). Providers and patient caregivers reported high satisfaction with overall acceptability, effectiveness, and efficiency of telepsychiatry. No safety concerns were indicated based on readmissions within 72 hours in either treatment condition.
CONCLUSIONS: Measured by charges and time, telepsychiatry consultations for pediatric psychiatric emergencies were cost-efficient from a hospital system perspective compared with usual care consisting of ambulance transport for in-person consultation at a children's hospital main campus. Telepsychiatry also improved clinical and operational efficiency and patient and family experience, and it showed promise for increasing access to other specialized health care needs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Initial Assessment, Treatment, and Follow-Up of Minor Pediatric Burn Wounds in Four Patients Remotely: A Preliminary Communication.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Close, multidisciplinary collaboration with burn experts is the essential strategy to achieve the best functional and esthetic outcomes in burn wound treatment. Management of minor burn injuries, where no specialized care is available, might be challenging. One concept to achieve a fast and timely result is the application of telemedicine. The objective of this study was to assess and develop a simple telemedicine protocol, which can be applied globally.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We present a pilot study based on a pediatric population of four patients with minor burns. Based on the severity and burn area, two cases of ambulant pediatric patients (mean 1% total body surface area, superficial and deep 2° burn) with minor burn injuries met study criteria and were enrolled. A pediatrician performed the initial assessment, followed by plastic surgery video consultation, using telephone's digital camera. Treatment protocols were designed to optimize outcomes. After the initial treatment phase, which took place at a nonteaching local hospital in Poland from January 1, 2014, to December 31, 2014, clinical follow-up was performed by a plastic surgeon via smartphone in the United States.
RESULTS: We have achieved complete burn wound resolution, in all patients, with no scarring and only minor discoloration. A simple, reproducible treatment protocol was designed to include dressing changes and additional outpatient visits.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of a telemedicine protocol allows for easy access to burn consultations, helps multidisciplinary collaboration, eases follow-ups, and shortens specialists' consult wait times. Real-time evaluation provides fast and flexible treatment, without long distance travels, for patients and their families. Telemedicine increases the frequency of follow-up, contributes to the esthetic outcome, and together with improved cost-effectiveness is beneficial for both the patient and healthcare system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Asynchronous Telepsychiatry: A Component of Stepped Integrated Care.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Integrated behavioral healthcare models typically involve a range of consultation options for mental healthcare. Asynchronous telepsychiatry (ATP) consults may be an additional potential choice, so we are conducting a 5-year clinical trial comparing ATP with synchronous telepsychiatry (STP) consultations.
METHODS: Patients referred by primary care providers are randomly assigned to one of the two treatment groups, ATP or STP. Clinical outcome, satisfaction, and economic data are being collected from patients for 2 years at 6-month intervals.
RESULTS: Baseline characteristics for the first 158 patients and case examples of ATP are presented.
CONCLUSION: Implementing ATP in existing integrated behavioral healthcare models could make mental healthcare more efficient.
Label Included: 0

Title: Design and Initial Results of the Minneapolis Heart Institute TeleHeart Program.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: The added value of a mobile application of Community Case Management on referral, re-consultation and hospitalization rates of children aged under 5 years in two districts in Northern Malawi: study protocol for a pragmatic, stepped-wedge cluster-randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is evidence to suggest that frontline community health workers in Malawi are under-referring children to higher-level facilities. Integrating a digitized version of paper-based methods of Community Case Management (CCM) could strengthen delivery, increasing urgent referral rates and preventing unnecessary re-consultations and hospital admissions. This trial aims to evaluate the added value of the Supporting LIFE electronic Community Case Management Application (SL eCCM App) compared to paper-based CCM on urgent referral, re-consultation and hospitalization rates, in two districts in Northern Malawi.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a pragmatic, stepped-wedge cluster-randomized trial assessing the added value of the SL eCCM App on urgent referral, re-consultation and hospitalization rates of children aged 2 months and older to up to 5 years, within 7 days of the index visit. One hundred and two health surveillance assistants (HSAs) were stratified into six clusters based on geographical location, and clusters randomized to the timing of crossover to the intervention using simple, computer-generated randomization. Training workshops were conducted prior to the control (paper-CCM) and intervention (paper-CCM + SL eCCM App) in assigned clusters. Neither participants nor study personnel were blinded to allocation. Outcome measures were determined by abstraction of clinical data from patient records 2 weeks after recruitment. A nested qualitative study explored perceptions of adherence to urgent referral recommendations and a cost evaluation determined the financial and time-related costs to caregivers of subsequent health care utilization. The trial was conducted between July 2016 and February 2017.
DISCUSSION: This is the first large-scale trial evaluating the value of adding a mobile application of CCM to the assessment of children aged under 5 years. The trial will generate evidence on the potential use of mobile health for CCM in Malawi, and more widely in other low- and middle-income countries.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, ID: NCT02763345 . Registered on 3 May 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clot retrieval and acute stroke care.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Clot retrieval and acute stroke care.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Experiences with online consultation systems in primary care: case study of one early adopter site.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is a strong policy drive towards implementing alternatives to face-to-face consultations in general practice to improve access, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness. These alternatives embrace novel technologies that are assumed to offer potential to improve care.
AIM: To explore the introduction of one online consultation system (Tele-Doc) and how it shapes working practices.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Mixed methods case study in an inner-city general practice.
METHOD: The study was conducted through interviews with IT developers, clinicians, and administrative staff, and scrutiny of documents, websites, and demonstrator versions of Tele-Doc, followed by thematic analysis and discourse analysis.
RESULTS: Three interrelated themes were identified: online consultation systems as innovation, managing the 'messiness' of general practice consultations, and redistribution of the work of general practice. These themes raise timely questions about what it means to consult in contemporary general practice. Uptake of Tele-Doc by patients was low. Much of the work of the consultation was redistributed to patients and administrators, sometimes causing misunderstandings. The 'messiness' of consultations was hard to eliminate. In-house training focused on the technical application rather than associated transformations to practice work that were not anticipated. GPs welcomed varied modes of consulting, but the aspiration of improved efficiency was not realised in practice.
CONCLUSION: Tele-Doc offers a new kind of consultation that is still being worked out in practice. It may offer convenience for patients with discrete, single problems, and a welcome variation to GPs' workload. Tele-Doc's potential for addressing more complex problems and achieving efficiency is less clear, and its adoption may involve unforeseeable consequences.
Label Included: 0

Title: A review of the availability and cost effectiveness of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) management interventions in rural Australia and New Zealand.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic, progressive disease, which consumes a significant proportion of the Australian and New Zealand healthcare budget. Studies have shown that people living with COPD outside of urban areas have higher rates of hospitalisations. Two international reviews have demonstrated reduced hospital admissions and length of stay in people with COPD who participate in an integrated disease management program. However, most studies included in these reviews are in urban settings. The purpose of this review is to explore the type and cost-effectiveness of COPD management interventions located in rural or remote settings of Australia and New Zealand in order to inform planning and ongoing service development in the authors' local health district.
METHOD: Six databases and Google scholar were searched to find literature relating to the availability and cost-effectiveness of non-pharmaceutical interventions for the management of COPD in rural and remote areas of Australia and New Zealand.
RESULTS: Two studies were found that met the inclusion criteria. Both studies had small sample sizes, were single intervention studies and showed a positive influence on variables such as number of hospital admissions and length of stay at 12 months post-intervention. However, because of the limited number of studies and the lack of homogeneity of interventions, no conclusions regarding availability and cost-effectiveness of COPD interventions in rural and remote areas of Australia and New Zealand could be drawn.
CONCLUSIONS: Limited literature exists to inform planning and development of services for people with COPD living in rural and remote areas of Australia and New Zealand. Approximately 50% of pulmonary rehabilitation programs are situated in rural and remote locations in Australia and New Zealand. Outcomes from existing programs need to be reported in a consistent and coordinated manner to allow evaluation of health resource utilisation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Potential role of tele-rehabilitation to address barriers to implementation of physical therapy among West African stroke survivors: A cross-sectional survey.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The greatest burden from stroke-related disability is borne by Low-and-Middle Income countries (LMICs) where access to rehabilitation after stroke is severely challenged. Tele-rehabilitation could be a viable avenue to address unmet rehabilitation needs in LMICs.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the burden of post-stroke physical deficits, rates of utilization of physiotherapy services, and perceptions of tele-rehabilitation among recent Ghanaian stroke survivors.
METHODS: Using a consecutive sampling strategy, 100 stroke survivors attending an outpatient Neurology clinic in a Ghanaian tertiary medical center were enrolled into this cross-sectional study. After collecting basic demographic data, clinical history on stroke type, severity and level of disability, we administered the validated 20-item Functional Independence Measure questionnaire to evaluate functional status of study participants and an 8-item questionnaire to assess participants' attitudes towards telemedicine administered rehabilitation intervention.
RESULTS: Mean±SD age of study participants was 57.2±13.3years of which 51.0% were males with a mean duration of stroke of 1.3±2.2years. 53% had Modified Rankin scores of ≥3, 57% were fully independent and only 27% reported utilizing any physiotherapy services. Barriers to access to physiotherapy included financial constraints due to cost of physiotherapy services and transportation as well as premature discharge from physiotherapy to avoid overburdening of available physiotherapy services. These factors led to the limited provision of rehabilitative therapy. Participants held positive views of the potential for tele-rehabilitation interventions (80-93%). However, while 85% owned mobile phones, only 35% had smart phones.
CONCLUSION: Despite, a high burden of residual disability, only about 1 out of 4 stroke patients in this Ghanaian cohort was exposed to post-stroke physiotherapy services, largely due to relatively high costs and limited health system resources. These Ghanaian stroke patients viewed the potential role of Tele-rehabilitation as positive, but this promising intervention needs to be formally tested for feasibility, efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine Applications in Obstetrics and Gynecology.
Abstract: This article reviews principles to consider when setting up a telemedicine (TM) program to provide care to women in the field of obstetrics and gynecology. There are different types of TM encounters and clinical applications vary widely. The consensus among patients and providers is that TM is convenient to provide needed subspecialty medical care when it is not available locally. These programs are clinically successful, but economic and cost-effectiveness data are lacking. Federal reimbursement policy is limited for TM. State policy on coverage and reimbursement varies significantly from state to state and is the main driver on whether TM programs are successful.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote consulting with telemonitoring of continuous positive airway pressure usage data for the routine review of people with obstructive sleep apnoea hypopnoea syndrome: A systematic review.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Telehealth has the potential to offer more convenient care and reduce travel. We aimed to systematically review studies that assessed the effectiveness of teleconsultation plus telemonitoring in the review of people with obstructive sleep apnoea hypopnoea syndrome receiving continuous positive airway pressure therapy versus face-to-face care.
METHODS: Following Cochrane methodology, we searched 10 electronic databases (November 2015), trial registries, and reference lists of included studies, for trials testing interventions that combined remote consultations with telemonitoring of usage/continuous positive airway pressure data. Outcomes measures were: proportion reviewed, continuous positive airway pressure adherence, symptom control, and satisfaction/acceptability and cost effectiveness.
RESULTS: From 362 potentially relevant papers, we identified five randomised controlled trials ( n = 269 patients): four from North America and one from Spain. Risk of bias was moderate in one, and moderate/high in four trials. Two trials reported number/duration of reviews with inconsistent results. The teleconsultation/telemonitoring improved continuous positive airway pressure adherence in two trials ( n = 19; n = 75); two ( n = 114 and n = 75) reported no between-groups differences. Two studies, both at moderate/high risk of bias, showed no between-group difference in the Epworth Sleepiness Score. Satisfaction was generally reported positively in all five trials; one trial reported that the teleconsultation/telemonitoring patients were 'more likely to continue' with continuous positive airway pressure therapy treatment. One study reported teleconsultation/telemonitoring as cost effective.
DISCUSSION: The evidence for teleconsultation/telemonitoring in continuous positive airway pressure users is limited; however, no safety concerns have been raised. Adequately powered, well-designed trials are needed to establish whether real-time telemonitoring and remote teleconsultation is a clinically and cost effective option for people using continuous positive airway pressure therapy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Estimating the effectiveness of pulmonary rehabilitation for COPD exacerbations: reduction of hospital inpatient days during the following year.
Abstract: AIMS: To study the short- and long-term results of pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) given in the Helsinki University Heart and Lung Center and to understand the hospital resources used to treat severe COPD exacerbations in the city of Helsinki.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seventy-eight inactive patients with severe COPD were recruited for a PR course; three of them did not finish the course. The course took 6-8 weeks and included 11-16 supervised exercise sessions. Using electronic medical records, we studied all COPD patients with hospital admission in the city of Helsinki in 2014, including COPD diagnosis, criteria for exacerbation, and potential exclusion/inclusion criteria for PR.
RESULTS: Seventy-five of the patients finished the PR course and 92% of those patients showed clinically significant improvement. Their hospital days were reduced by 54% when compared to the year before. At 1 year after the course, 53% of the patients reported that they have continued with regular exercise training. In the city of Helsinki, 437 COPD patients were treated in a hospital due to exacerbation during 2014. On the basis of their electronic medical records, 57% of them would be suitable for PR. According to a rough estimate, 10%-20% hospital days could be saved annually if PR was available to all, assuming that the PR results would be as good as those shown here.
CONCLUSIONS: The study showed that in a real-world setting, PR is efficient when measured by saved hospital days in severe COPD. Half of the patients could be motivated to continue exercising on their own.
Label Included: 0

Title: Financial incentives to discontinue long-term benzodiazepine use: a discrete choice experiment investigating patient preferences and willingness to participate.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Investigate the acceptability of financial incentives for initiating a medically supervised benzodiazepine discontinuation programme among people with long-term benzodiazepine use and to identify programme features that influence willingness to participate.
METHODS: We conducted a discrete choice experiment in which we presented a variety of incentive-based programs to a sample of older adults with long-term benzodiazepine use identified using the outpatient electronic health record of a university-owned health system. We studied four programme variables: incentive amount for initiating the programme, incentive amount for successful benzodiazepine discontinuation, lottery versus certain payment and whether partial payment was given for dose reduction. Respondents reported their willingness to participate in the programmes and additional information was collected on demographics, history of use and anxiety symptoms.
RESULTS: The overall response rate was 28.4%. Among the 126 respondents, all four programme variables influenced stated preferences. Respondents strongly preferred guaranteed cash-based incentives as opposed to a lottery, and the dollar amount of both the starting and conditional incentives had a substantial impact on choice. Willingness to participate increased with the amount of conditional incentive. Programme participation also varied by gender, duration of use and income.
CONCLUSIONS: Participation in an incentive-based benzodiazepine discontinuation programme might be relatively low, but is modifiable by programme variables including incentive amounts. These results will be helpful to inform the design of future trials of benzodiazepine discontinuation programmes. Further research is needed to assess the financial viability and potential cost-effectiveness of such economic incentives.
Label Included: 0

Title: Return-to-work intervention versus usual care for sick-listed employees: health-economic investment appraisal alongside a cluster randomised trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the health-economic costs and benefits of a guided eHealth intervention (E-health module embedded in Collaborative Occupational healthcare (ECO)) encouraging sick-listed employees to a faster return to work.
DESIGN: A two-armed cluster randomised trial with occupational physicians (OPs) (n=62), clustered and randomised by region into an experimental and a control group, to conduct a health-economic investment appraisal. Online self-reported data were collected from employees at baseline, after 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.
SETTING: Occupational health care in the Netherlands.
PARTICIPANTS: Employees from small-sized and medium-sized companies (≥18 years), sick-listed between 4 and 26 weeks with (symptoms of) common mental disorders visiting their OP.
INTERVENTIONS: In the intervention group, employees (N=131) received an eHealth module aimed at changing cognitions regarding return to work, while OPs were supported by a decision aid for treatment and referral options. Employees in the control condition (N=89) received usual sickness guidance.
OUTCOMES MEASURES: Net benefits and return on investment based on absenteeism, presenteeism, health care use and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: From the employer's perspective, the incremental net benefits were €3187 per employee over a single year, representing a return of investment of €11 per invested Euro, with a break-even point at 6 months. The economic case was also favourable from the employee's perspective, partly because of QALY health gains. The intervention was costing €234 per employee from a health service financier's perspective. The incremental net benefits from a social perspective were €4210. This amount dropped to €3559 in the sensitivity analysis trimming the 5% highest costs.
CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that the ECO intervention offers good value for money for virtually all stakeholders involved, because initial investments were more than recouped within a single year. The sometimes wide 95% CIs suggest that the costs and benefits are not always very precise estimates and real benefits could vary considerably.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NTR2108; Results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Online asthma management for children is cost-effective.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: The scope and impact of mobile health clinics in the United States: a literature review.
Abstract: As the U.S. healthcare system transforms its care delivery model to increase healthcare accessibility and improve health outcomes, it is undergoing changes in the context of ever-increasing chronic disease burdens and healthcare costs. Many illnesses disproportionately affect certain populations, due to disparities in healthcare access and social determinants of health. These disparities represent a key area to target in order to better our nation's overall health and decrease healthcare expenditures. It is thus imperative for policymakers and health professionals to develop innovative interventions that sustainably manage chronic diseases, promote preventative health, and improve outcomes among communities disenfranchised from traditional healthcare as well as among the general population. This article examines the available literature on Mobile Health Clinics (MHCs) and the role that they currently play in the U.S. healthcare system. Based on a search in the PubMed database and data from the online collaborative research network of mobile clinics MobileHealthMap.org , the authors evaluated 51 articles with evidence on the strengths and weaknesses of the mobile health sector in the United States. Current literature supports that MHCs are successful in reaching vulnerable populations, by delivering services directly at the curbside in communities of need and flexibly adapting their services based on the changing needs of the target community. As a link between clinical and community settings, MHCs address both medical and social determinants of health, tackling health issues on a community-wide level. Furthermore, evidence suggest that MHCs produce significant cost savings and represent a cost-effective care delivery model that improves health outcomes in underserved groups. Even though MHCs can fulfill many goals and mandates in alignment with our national priorities and have the potential to help combat some of the largest healthcare challenges of this era, there are limitations and challenges to this healthcare delivery model that must be addressed and overcome before they can be more broadly integrated into our healthcare system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Screening Units for the Early Detection of Cancer: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Mobile screening units (MSUs) provide cancer screening services outside of fixed clinical sites, thereby increasing access to early detection services. We conducted a systematic review of the performance of MSUs for the early detection of cancer. Databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, WHO Global Health Library, Web of Science, PsycINFO) were searched up to July 2015. Studies describing screening for breast, cervical, and colon cancer using MSUs were included. Data were collected for operational aspects including the performance of exams, screening tests used, and outcomes of case detection. Of 268 identified studies, 78 were included. Studies investigated screening for cancers including breast (n = 55), cervical (n = 12), colon (n = 1), and multiphasic screening for multiple cancers (n = 10). The median number of screening exams performed per intervention was 1,767 (interquartile range 5,656-38,233). Programs operated in 20 countries, mostly in North America (36%) and Europe (36%); 52% served mixed rural/urban regions, while 35% and 13% served rural or urban regions, respectfully. We conclude that MSUs have served to expand access to screening in diverse contexts. However, further research on the implementation of MSUs in low-resource settings and health economic research on cost-effectiveness of MSUs compared with fixed clinics to inform policymakers is needed. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev; 26(12); 1679-94. ©2017 AACR.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of a Community Health Worker-Led Multicomponent Intervention on Blood Pressure Control in Low-Income Patients in Argentina: A Randomized Clinical Trial.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Despite extensive knowledge of hypertension treatment, the prevalence of uncontrolled hypertension is high and increasing in low- and middle-income countries.
OBJECTIVE: To test whether a community health worker-led multicomponent intervention would improve blood pressure (BP) control among low-income patients with hypertension.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A cluster randomized trial was conducted in 18 centers for primary health care within a national public system providing free medications and health care to uninsured patients in Argentina. A total of 1432 low-income adult patients with uncontrolled hypertension were recruited between June 2013 and April 2015 and followed up to October 2016.
INTERVENTIONS: Nine centers (743 patients) were randomized to the multicomponent intervention, which included a community health worker-led home intervention (health coaching, home BP monitoring, and BP audit and feedback), a physician intervention, and a text-messaging intervention over 18 months. Nine centers (689 patients) were randomized to usual care.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The coprimary outcomes were the differences in systolic and diastolic BP changes from baseline to the end of follow-up of patients with hypertension. Secondary outcomes included the proportion of patients with controlled hypertension (BP <140/90 mm Hg). Three BP measurements were obtained at each of 2 baseline and 2 termination visits using a standard protocol, the means of which were used for analyses.
RESULTS: Of 1432 participants (mean age, 55.8 years [SD, 13.3]; 772 women [53.0%]), 1357 (94.8%) completed the trial. Baseline mean systolic BP was 151.7 mm Hg for the intervention group and 149.8 mm Hg for the usual care group; the mean diastolic BP was 92.2 mm Hg for the intervention group and 90.1 mm Hg for the usual care group. Systolic BP reduction from baseline to month 18 was 19.3 mm Hg (95% CI, 17.9-20.8 mm Hg) for the intervention group and 12.7 mm Hg (95% CI, 11.3-14.2 mm Hg) for the usual care group; the difference in the reduction was 6.6 mm Hg (95% CI, 4.6-8.6; P < .001). Diastolic BP decreased by 12.2 mm Hg (95% CI, 11.2-13.2 mm Hg) in the intervention group and 6.9 mm Hg (95% CI, 5.9-7.8 mm Hg) in the control group; the difference in the reduction was 5.4 mm Hg (95% CI, 4.0-6.8 mm Hg; P < .001). The proportion of patients with controlled hypertension increased from 17.0% at baseline to 72.9% at 18 months in the intervention group and from 17.6% to 52.2% in the usual care group; the difference in the increase was 20.6% (95% CI, 15.4%-25.9%; P < .001). No adverse events were reported.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Low-income patients in Argentina with uncontrolled hypertension who participated in a community health worker-led multicomponent intervention experienced a greater decrease in systolic and diastolic BP than did patients who received usual care over 18 months. Further research is needed to assess generalizability and cost-effectiveness of this intervention and to understand which components may have contributed most to the outcome.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01834131.
Label Included: 0

Title: Emergency consultants value medical scribes and most prefer to work with them, a few would rather not: a qualitative Australian study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The utilisation of medical scribes in the USA has enabled productivity gains for emergency consultants, though their personal experiences have not been widely documented. We aimed to evaluate the consultant experience of working with scribes in an Australian ED.
METHODS: Emergency consultants working with scribes and those who declined to work with scribes were invited to participate in individual interviews (structured and semistructured questions) about scribes, scribe work and the scribe program in October 2016.
RESULTS: Of 16 consultants, 13 participated in interviews, that is, 11 worked with scribes and 2 did not and 3 left Cabrini prior to the interviews. Consultants working with scribes found them most useful for capturing initial patient encounters, for finding information and completing discharge tasks. Scribes captured more details than consultants usually did. Editing was required for omissions, misunderstandings and rearranging information order, but this improved with increasing scribe experience. Consultants described changing their style to give more information to the patient in the room. Consultants felt more productive and able to meet demands. They also described enjoyment, less stress, less cognitive loading, improved ability to multitask, see complex patients and less fatigue.In interviews with the two consultants declining scribes, theme saturation was not achieved. Consultants declining scribes preferred to work independently. They did not like templated notes and felt that consultation nuances were lost. They valued their notes write-up time as time for cognitive processing of the presentation. They thought the scribe and computer impacted negatively on communication with the patient.
CONCLUSION: Medical scribes were seen to improve physician productivity, enjoyment at work, ability to multitask and to lower stress levels. Those who declined scribes were concerned about losing important nuances and cognitive processing time for the case.
Label Included: 0

Title: There's no place like home: Integrating pulmonary rehabilitation into the home setting.
Abstract: Traditional, outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation provided to stable COPD patients leads to significant improvements in dyspnea, exercise capacity and health related quality of life. Also, when started during or shortly after a hospitalization for a COPD exacerbation, pulmonary rehabilitation improves these patient-centered outcomes and arguably reduces subsequent health care utilization and mortality. Despite these benefits, the uptake of traditional pulmonary rehabilitation remains disappointingly poor. Home-based pulmonary rehabilitation, a safe and effective alternative to traditional, center-based programs, can broaden access. While proven improvements in dyspnea, exercise capacity and health status justify implementation of home-based pulmonary rehabilitation, it would be helpful to know whether it can also decrease health care utilization and be cost-effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Systematic Review of the Economic Evidence for Home Support Interventions in Dementia.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Recent evidence signals the need for effective forms of home support to people with dementia and their carers. The cost-effectiveness evidence of different approaches to support is scant.
OBJECTIVES: To appraise economic evidence on the cost-effectiveness of home support interventions for dementia to inform future evaluation.
METHODS: A systematic literature review of full and partial economic evaluations was performed using the British National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database supplemented by additional references. Study characteristics and findings, including incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, when available, were summarized narratively. Study quality was appraised using the National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database critical appraisal criteria and independent ratings, agreed by two reviewers. Studies were located on a permutation matrix describing their mix of incremental costs/effects to aid decision making.
RESULTS: Of the 151 articles retrieved, 14 studies met the inclusion criteria: 8 concerning support to people with dementia and 6 to carers. Five studies were incremental cost-utility analyses, seven were cost-effectiveness analyses, and two were cost consequences analyses. Five studies expressed incremental cost-effectiveness ratios as cost per quality-adjusted life-year (£6,696-£207,942 per quality-adjusted life-year). In four studies, interventions were dominant over usual care. Two interventions were more costly but more beneficial and were favorable against current acceptability thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: Occupational therapy, home-based exercise, and a carers' coping intervention emerged as cost-effective approaches for which there was better evidence. These interventions used environmental modifications, behavior management, physical activity, and emotional support as active components. More robust evidence is needed to judge the value of these and other interventions across the dementia care pathway.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of a speech pathology synchronous telepractice service for patients with head and neck cancer.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to report the economic outcomes of a new synchronous telepractice service providing speech pathology intervention to patients with head and neck cancer at nonmetropolitan facilities.
METHODS: A multisite randomized controlled trial comparing standard care versus a new synchronous telepractice model was conducted within a large Australian public cancer service. Data pertaining to health service costs (staff wages, equipment, and patient travel reimbursement), patient +/- carer costs (travel and wages), and patient-reported quality of life (Assessment of Quality of Life questionnaire 4D) were collected.
RESULTS: Eighty-two referrals (39 standard care and 43 synchronous telepractice care) were managed. The new telepractice service reported average cost savings of 12% (P < .0058) for the health service and $40.05 saving per patient per referral. An equivalent positive increase in quality of life (0.04) was reported for both groups.
CONCLUSION: The synchronous telepractice service provides cost efficiencies over standard care for providing remote specialist speech pathology head and neck cancer intervention.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of telephone first approach to demand management in English general practice: observational study.
Abstract: Objective To evaluate a "telephone first" approach, in which all patients wanting to see a general practitioner (GP) are asked to speak to a GP on the phone before being given an appointment for a face to face consultation.Design Time series and cross sectional analysis of routine healthcare data, data from national surveys, and primary survey data.Participants 147 general practices adopting the telephone first approach compared with a 10% random sample of other practices in England.Intervention Management support for workload planning and introduction of the telephone first approach provided by two commercial companies.Main outcome measures Number of consultations, total time consulting (59 telephone first practices, no controls). Patient experience (GP Patient Survey, telephone first practices plus controls). Use and costs of secondary care (hospital episode statistics, telephone first practices plus controls). The main analysis was intention to treat, with sensitivity analyses restricted to practices thought to be closely following the companies' protocols.Results After the introduction of the telephone first approach, face to face consultations decreased considerably (adjusted change within practices -38%, 95% confidence interval -45% to -29%; P<0.001). An average practice experienced a 12-fold increase in telephone consultations (1204%, 633% to 2290%; P<0.001). The average duration of both telephone and face to face consultations decreased, but there was an overall increase of 8% in the mean time spent consulting by GPs, albeit with large uncertainty on this estimate (95% confidence interval -1% to 17%; P=0.088). These average workload figures mask wide variation between practices, with some practices experiencing a substantial reduction in workload and others a large increase. Compared with other English practices in the national GP Patient Survey, in practices using the telephone first approach there was a large (20.0 percentage points, 95% confidence interval 18.2 to 21.9; P<0.001) improvement in length of time to be seen. In contrast, other scores on the GP Patient Survey were slightly more negative. Introduction of the telephone first approach was followed by a small (2.0%) increase in hospital admissions (95% confidence interval 1% to 3%; P=0.006), no initial change in emergency department attendance, but a small (2% per year) decrease in the subsequent rate of rise of emergency department attendance (1% to 3%; P=0.005). There was a small net increase in secondary care costs.Conclusions The telephone first approach shows that many problems in general practice can be dealt with over the phone. The approach does not suit all patients or practices and is not a panacea for meeting demand. There was no evidence to support claims that the approach would, on average, save costs or reduce use of secondary care.
Label Included: 0

Title: The challenges of implementing pharmacogenomic testing in the clinic.
Abstract: Pharmacogenomic testing has the potential to greatly benefit patients by enabling personalization of medication management, ensuring better efficacy and decreasing the risk of side effects. However, to fully realize the potential of pharmacogenomic testing, there are several important issues that must be addressed. Areas covered: In this expert review we discuss current challenges impacting the implementation of pharmacogenomic testing in the clinical practice. We emphasize issues related to testing methods, reporting of the results, test selection, clinical interpretation of the results, cost-effectiveness, and the long-term use of pharmacogenomic results in clinical practice. We identify opportunities and future directions to facilitate clinical implementation. Expert commentary: Several key elements are necessary to optimally integrate pharmacogenomic testing into clinical practice. Collaborative efforts among laboratories are needed to improve standardization of testing and reporting of the results. Clinicians need educational opportunities to improve understanding of which test to order and how to interpret the results. The electronic health records and other clinical systems need to improve their storage of the pharmacogenomics test results and interoperability to facilitate the use of clinically actionable results to improve patient care.
Label Included: 0

Title: The role of tele-medicine in patients with respiratory diseases.
Abstract: Tele-medicine is a clinical application connecting a patient with specialized care consultants by means of electronic platforms, potentially able to improve patients' self-management and allow for the care of patients with limited access to health services. This article summarizes the use of tele-medicine as a tool in managing patients suffering from some pathological respiratory conditions. Areas covered: We searched papers published between 1990 and 2017 dealing with tele-medicine and respiratory diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, interstitial lung disease, chronic respiratory failure, neuromuscular diseases, critical illness, home mechanical ventilation, and also legal and economic issues. Controlled trials report different results on feasibility, cost-effectiveness, and safety of tele-medicine. Expert commentary: Progress in tele-medicine widens the horizons in respiratory medicine: this tool may potentially reduce health care costs by moving some medical interventions from centralized locations in to patient's home, also allowing for the delivery of care in countries with limited access to it. Legal, safety, and privacy problems, as well as reimbursement issues, must still be defined and solved. At present time, we still need much more evidence to consider this modality as a real option in the management of these patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using Smart Technology to Improve Outcomes in Myocardial Infarction Patients: Rationale and Design of a Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial, The Box.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Recent evidence suggests that frequent monitoring using smartphone-compatible wearable technologies might improve clinical effectiveness and patient satisfaction of care.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to investigate the clinical effectiveness and patient satisfaction of a smart technology intervention in patients admitted with a ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or non-ST acute coronary syndrome (NST-ACS).
METHODS: In this single center, open, randomized controlled trial patients who suffered from STEMI or NST-ACS will be randomized 1:1 to an intervention group or control group. Both groups will be followed up to one year after the index event. The intervention group will take daily measurements with a smartphone-compatible electrocardiogram device, blood pressure (BP) monitor, weight scale, and activity tracker. Furthermore, two of four outpatient clinic visits will be replaced by electronic visits (1 and 6 months after index event). The control group will receive regular care, consisting of four outpatient clinic visits (1, 3, 6, and 12 months after index event). All patients will be asked to fill in validated questionnaires about patient satisfaction, quality of life, propensity of medication adherence, and physical activity.
RESULTS: The primary outcome of this trial will be percentage of patients with controlled BP. Secondary outcomes include patient satisfaction, health care utilization, major adverse cardiac events, medication adherence, physical activity, quality of life, and percentage of patients in which a sustained arrhythmia is detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Smart technology could potentially improve care in postmyocardial infarction patients. This trial will investigate whether usage of smart technology can improve clinical- and cost-effectiveness of care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02976376; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02976376 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6tcvAdbdH).
Label Included: 0

Title: The role and benefits of accessing primary care patient records during unscheduled care: a systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of accessing primary care records on unscheduled care. Unscheduled care is typically delivered in hospital Emergency Departments. Studies published to December 2014 reporting on primary care record access during unscheduled care were retrieved.
RESULTS: Twenty-two articles met inclusion criteria from a pool of 192. Many shared electronic health records (SEHRs) were large in scale, servicing many millions of patients. Reported utilization rates by clinicians was variable, with rates >20% amongst health management organizations but much lower in nation-scale systems. No study reported on clinical outcomes or patient safety, and no economic studies of SEHR access during unscheduled care were available. Design factors that may affect utilization included consent and access models, SEHR content, and system usability and reliability.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite their size and expense, SEHRs designed to support unscheduled care have been poorly evaluated, and it is not possible to draw conclusions about any likely benefits associated with their use. Heterogeneity across the systems and the populations they serve make generalization about system design or performance difficult. None of the reviewed studies used a theoretical model to guide evaluation. Value of Information models may be a useful theoretical approach to design evaluation metrics, facilitating comparison across systems in future studies. Well-designed SEHRs should in principle be capable of improving the efficiency, quality and safety of unscheduled care, but at present the evidence for such benefits is weak, largely because it has not been sought.
Label Included: 0

Title: Early food for future health: a randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of an eHealth intervention aiming to promote healthy food habits from early childhood.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Childhood overweight and obesity is a global public health challenge. Primary prevention initiatives targeting parents have been called for to encourage a positive feeding environment and healthy eating habits that may lay a good foundation for future health. At the same time, there is a need for interventions which combine accessibility and scalability with cost effectiveness. Today's parents are extensive Internet-users, but only a few randomized controlled trials have investigated the use of Internet to promote healthy eating habits in early childhood. In Early Food for Future Health we have developed and will evaluate an Internet-based tool for parents of children between 6 and 12 months, aiming to increase knowledge about infant nutrition and foster protective feeding behavior.
METHODS: During springtime 2016, parents of children aged between 3 and 5 months were recruited through Norwegian child health centres and announcements on Facebook. After completing the baseline questionnaire, 718 parents were individually randomized to intervention- or control group. The intervention group received monthly emails with links to an age-appropriate web-site when their child was between 6 and 12 months. The control group received ordinary care from the child health centres. The data-collection is ongoing. All participants will be followed up at ages 12 and possibly 24 and 48 months, with questionnaires relating to eating behaviour and feeding practices, food variety and diet quality.
DISCUSSION: Providing guidance and counseling to parents of infants is an important task for health authorities and the public child health services. Early Food for Future health is an intervention focusing on promoting early healthy food-habits which may prevent childhood overweight and obesity. If proven to be effective, Early Food for Future Health can be used by parents and public health nurses for supplementary guidance on feeding practices and diet. This study has the potential to provide greater insight and understanding regarding early parental feeding practices, child eating behavior and the development and efficacy of Internet-based public health interventions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN13601567 .
Label Included: 0

Title: Personalized Hypertension Management Using Patient-Generated Health Data Integrated With Electronic Health Records (EMPOWER-H): Six-Month Pre-Post Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: EMPOWER-H (Engaging and Motivating Patients Online With Enhanced Resources-Hypertension) is a personalized-care model facilitating engagement in hypertension self-management utilizing an interactive Web-based disease management system integrated with the electronic health record. The model is designed to support timely patient-provider interaction by incorporating decision support technology to individualize care and provide personalized feedback for patients with chronic disease. Central to this process were patient-generated health data, including blood pressure (BP), weight, and lifestyle behaviors, which were uploaded using a smartphone.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the program among patients within primary care already under management for hypertension and with uncontrolled BP.
METHODS: Using a 6-month pre-post design, outcome measures included office-measured and home-monitored BP, office-measured weight, intervention contacts, diet, physical activity, smoking, knowledge, and health-related quality of life.
RESULTS: At 6 months, 55.9% of participants (N=149) achieved office BP goals (<140/90 mm Hg; P<.001) and 86.0% achieved clinically meaningful reduction in office BP (reduction in systolic BP [SBP] ≥5 mm Hg or diastolic BP [DBP] ≥3 mm Hg). At baseline, 25.2% of participants met home BP goals (<135/85 mm Hg), and this percentage significantly increased to 71.4% (P<.001) at 6 months. EMPOWER-H also significantly reduced both office and home SBP and DBP, decreased office-measured weight and consumption of high-salt and high-fat foods (all P<.005), and increased intake of fruit and vegetables, minutes of aerobic exercise, and hypertension knowledge (all P<.05). Patients with higher home BP upload frequencies had significantly higher odds of achieving home BP goals. Patients receiving more total intervention, behavioral, pharmaceutical contacts had significantly lower odds of achieving home BP goals but higher improvements in office BP (all P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS: EMPOWER-H significantly improved participants' office-measured and home-monitored BP, weight, and lifestyle behaviors, suggesting that technologically enabled BP home-monitoring, with structured use of patient-generated health data and a personalized care-plan facilitating patient engagement, can support effective clinical management. The experience gained in this study provides support for the feasibility and value of using carefully managed patient-generated health data in the day-to-day clinical management of patients with chronic conditions. A large-scale, real-world study to evaluate sustained effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and scalability is warranted.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cardiac telerehabilitation: A novel cost-efficient care delivery strategy that can induce long-term health benefits.
Abstract: Background Finding innovative and cost-efficient care strategies that induce long-term health benefits in cardiac patients constitutes a big challenge today. The aim of this Telerehab III follow-up study was to assess whether a 6-month additional cardiac telerehabilitation programme could induce long-term health benefits and remain cost-efficient after the tele-intervention ended. Methods and results A total of 126 cardiac patients first completed the multicentre, randomised controlled telerehabilitation trial (Telerehab III, time points t0 to t1). They consequently entered the follow-up study (t1) with evaluations 2 years later (t2). A quantitative analysis of peak aerobic capacity (VO2 peak, primary endpoint), international physical activity questionnaire self-reported physical activity and HeartQoL quality of life (secondary endpoints) was performed. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated. Even though a decline in VO2 peak (24 ± 8 ml/[min*kg] at t1 and 22 ± 6 ml/[min*kg] at t2; P ≤ 0.001) was observed within the tele-intervention group patients; overall they did better than the no tele-intervention group ( P = 0.032). Dividing the incremental cost (-€878/patient) by the differential incremental quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) (0.22 QALYs) yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of -€3993/QALY. Conclusions A combined telerehabilitation and centre-based programme, followed by transitional telerehabilitation induced persistent health benefits and remained cost-efficient up to 2 years after the end of the intervention. A partial decline of the benefits originally achieved did occur once the tele-intervention ended. Healthcare professionals should reflect on how innovative cost-efficient care models could be implemented in standard care. Future research should focus on key behaviour change techniques in technology-based interventions that enable full persistence of long-term behaviour change and health benefits. This study is registered in the ISRCTN registry (ISRCTN29243064).
Label Included: 0

Title: An Innovative Community-based Model for Improving Preventive Care in Rural Counties.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This quasi-experimental pilot study aimed to implement and evaluate a sustainable, rural community-based patient outreach model for preventive care provided through primary care practices (PCPs) located in a rural county in Oklahoma. A Wellness Coordinator (WC) working with PCPs, the county health department, the county hospital, and a health information exchange (HIE) organization helped county residents receive evidence-based preventive services.
METHODS: The WC used a community wellness registry connected to electronic medical records via HIE and called patients at the county level based on PCP-prioritized and tailored protocols. The registry flagged patient-level preventive care gaps, tracked outreach efforts, and documented the delivery of preventive services throughout the community. Return on investment (ROI) for prioritized preventive services was estimated in participating organizations.
RESULTS: Six of the 7 PCPs in the county expressed interest in the project. Three of these practices fully implemented the 1-year outreach program starting in mid 2015. The regional HIE supplied periodic data updates for 9138 county residents to help the coordinators address care gaps using the community registry. A total of 5034 outreach calls were made by the WC in the first year and 7776 prioritized recommendations were offered when care gaps were detected. Of the 5034 distinct patients who received a call, 1146 (22%) were up to date on all prioritized services, whereas 3888 (78%) were due for at least 1 of the selected services. Health care organizations in the county significantly improved the delivery of selected preventive services (mean increase, 35% across 10 services; P = .004; range, 3% to 215%) and realized a mean ROI of 80% for these services (range, 32% to 122%). The health system that employed the WC earned an estimated revenue of $52,000 realizing a 40% ROI for the coordinator position.
CONCLUSIONS: Although more research is needed, our pilot study suggests that it may be feasible and cost effective to implement an innovative, county-level patient outreach program for improving preventive care in rural settings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pragmatic clinical trials embedded in healthcare systems: generalizable lessons from the NIH Collaboratory.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The clinical research enterprise is not producing the evidence decision makers arguably need in a timely and cost effective manner; research currently involves the use of labor-intensive parallel systems that are separate from clinical care. The emergence of pragmatic clinical trials (PCTs) poses a possible solution: these large-scale trials are embedded within routine clinical care and often involve cluster randomization of hospitals, clinics, primary care providers, etc. Interventions can be implemented by health system personnel through usual communication channels and quality improvement infrastructure, and data collected as part of routine clinical care. However, experience with these trials is nascent and best practices regarding design operational, analytic, and reporting methodologies are undeveloped.
METHODS: To strengthen the national capacity to implement cost-effective, large-scale PCTs, the Common Fund of the National Institutes of Health created the Health Care Systems Research Collaboratory (Collaboratory) to support the design, execution, and dissemination of a series of demonstration projects using a pragmatic research design.
RESULTS: In this article, we will describe the Collaboratory, highlight some of the challenges encountered and solutions developed thus far, and discuss remaining barriers and opportunities for large-scale evidence generation using PCTs.
CONCLUSION: A planning phase is critical, and even with careful planning, new challenges arise during execution; comparisons between arms can be complicated by unanticipated changes. Early and ongoing engagement with both health care system leaders and front-line clinicians is critical for success. There is also marked uncertainty when applying existing ethical and regulatory frameworks to PCTS, and using existing electronic health records for data capture adds complexity.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluations of internet- and mobile-based interventions for the treatment and prevention of depression: A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Internet- and mobile-based interventions (IMIs) targeting depression have been shown to be clinically effective and are considered a cost-effective complement to established interventions. The aim of this review was to provide an overview of the evidence for the cost-effectiveness of IMIs for the treatment and prevention of depression.
METHODS: A systematic database search was conducted (Medline, PsychInfo, CENTRAL, PSYNDEX, OHE HEED). Relevant articles were selected according to defined eligibility criteria. IMIs were classified as cost-effective if they were below a willingness-to-pay threshold (WTP) of €22,845 (£20,000) - €34,267 (£30,000) per additional quality-adjusted life year (QALY) according to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) standard. Study quality was assessed using the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standard guidelines and the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool.
RESULTS: Of 1538 studies, seven economic evaluations of IMIs for the treatment of major depression, four for the treatment of subthreshold/minor depression and one for the prevention of depression. In six studies, IMIs were classified as likely to be cost-effective with an incremental cost-utility ratio between €3088 and €22,609. All of these IMIs were guided. Overall quality of most economic evaluations was evaluated as good. All studies showed some risk of bias.
LIMITATIONS: The studies used different methodologies and showed some risk of bias. These aspects as well as the classification of cost-effectiveness according to the WTP proposed by NICE should be considered when interpreting the results.
CONCLUSIONS: Results indicate that guided IMIs for the treatment of (subthreshold) depression have the potential to be a cost-effective complement to established interventions, but more methodologically sound studies are needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic burden of pneumococcal infections in children under 5 years of age.
Abstract: The present study aimed to determine the cost of childhood pneumococcal infections under 5 years of age and to provide further data for future health economy studies. Electronic medical records of children diagnosed with meningitis caused by S. pneumoniae and all-cause pneumonia, and acute otitis media (AOM) between January 2013-April 2014 were retrospectively evaluated. Direct costs for the treatments of hospitalized patients (pneumonia and pneumococcal meningitis) including costs of healthcare services consisted of costs of hospital bed, examination, laboratory analyses, scanning methods, consultation, vascular access procedures, and infusion and intravenous treatments. Direct costs for patients (AOM) treated in outpatient setting included constant price paid for the examination and cost of prescribed antibiotics. Indirect costs included cost of work loss of parents and their transportation expenses. Data of 130 children with pneumococcal meningitis (n = 10), pneumonia (n = 53), and AOM (n = 67) were analyzed. The total median cost was €4,060.38 (direct cost: €3,346.38 and indirect cost: €829.18) for meningitis, €835.91 (direct cost: €480.66 and indirect cost: €330.09) for pneumonia, and €117.32 (direct cost: €17.59 and indirect cost: €99.73) for AOM. The medication cost (p = 0.047), indirect cost (p = 0.032), and total cost (p = 0.011) were significantly higher in pneumonia patients aged ≥36 months than those aged <36 months; however, direct cost of AOM were significantly higher in the patients aged <36 months (p = 0.049). Results of the present study revealed that the treatment cost was significantly enhanced for hospitalization and for advanced disease. Thus, preventive actions, mainly vaccination, should be conducted regularly.
Label Included: 0

Title: Burden of non-adherence to latent tuberculosis infection drug therapy and the potential cost-effectiveness of adherence interventions in Canada: a simulation study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Pharmaceutical treatment of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) reduces the risk of progression to active tuberculosis (TB); however, poor adherence tempers the protective effect. We aimed to estimate the health burden of non-adherence, the maximum allowable cost of hypothetical new adherence interventions to be cost-effective and the potential value of existing adherence interventions for patients with low-risk LTBI in Canada.
DESIGN: A microsimulation model of LTBI progression over 25 years.
SETTING: General practice in Canada.
PARTICIPANTS: Individuals with LTBI who are initiating drug therapy.
INTERVENTIONS: A hypothetical intervention with a range of effectiveness was evaluated. Existing drug adherence interventions including peer support, two-way text messaging support, enhanced adherence counselling and adherence incentives were also evaluated.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Simulation outcomes included healthcare costs, TB incidence, TB deaths and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Base case results were interpreted against a willingness-to-pay threshold of $C50 000/QALY.
RESULTS: Compared with current adherence levels, full adherence to LTBI drug therapy could reduce new TB cases from 90.3 cases per 100 000 person-years to 35.9 cases per 100 000 person-years and reduce TB-related deaths from 7.9 deaths per 100 000 person-years to 3.1 deaths per 100 000 person-years. An intervention that increases relative adherence by 40% would bring the population near full adherence to drug therapy and could have a maximum allowable annual cost of approximately $C450 per person to be cost-effective. Based on estimates of effect sizes and costs of existing adherence interventions, we found that they yielded between 900 and 2400 additional QALYs per million people, reduced TB deaths by 5%-25% and were likely to be cost-effective over 25 years.
CONCLUSION: Full adherence could reduce the number of future TB cases by nearly 60%, offsetting TB-related costs and health burden. Several existing interventions are could be cost-effective to help achieve this goal.
Label Included: 0

Title: Urgent Need for Improved Mental Health Care and a More Collaborative Model of Care.
Abstract: Current treatments and the dominant model of mental health care do not adequately address the complex challenges of mental illness, which accounts for roughly one-third of adult disability globally. These circumstances call for radical change in the paradigm and practices of mental health care, including improving standards of clinician training, developing new research methods, and re-envisioning current models of mental health care delivery. Because of its dominant position in the US health care marketplace and its commitment to research and innovation, Kaiser Permanente (KP) is strategically positioned to make important contributions that will shape the future of mental health care nationally and globally.This article reviews challenges facing mental health care and proposes an agenda for developing a collaborative care model in primary care settings that incorporates conventional biomedical therapies and complementary and alternative medicine approaches. By moving beyond treatment delivery via telephone and secure video and providing earlier interventions through primary care clinics, KP is shifting the paradigm of mental health care to a collaborative care model focusing on prevention. Recommendations are to expand current practices to include integrative treatment strategies incorporating evidence-based biomedical and complementary and alternative medicine modalities that can be provided to patients using a collaborative care model. Recommendations also are made for an internal research program aimed at investigating the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of promising complementary and alternative medicine and integrative treatments addressing the complex needs of patients with severe psychiatric disorders, many of whom respond poorly to treatments available in KP mental health clinics.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Manual Stimulation of Acupuncture Points in the Treatment of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder: A Review of Clinical Emotional Freedom Techniques.
Abstract: Background: The manual stimulation of acupuncture points has been combined with components of cognitive and exposure therapies into a clinical and self-help approach known as Emotional Freedom Techniques (EFT). More than 40 clinical trials and four meta-analytic reviews of EFT treatments have demonstrated large effect sizes with a range of conditions, including pain, PTSD (in both civilian and military veteran populations), phobias, anxiety, and depression. Objective: This review describes the approach, with a focus on PTSD in veterans and service members, provides an overview of how EFT is most commonly applied, and outlines obstacles and cautions related to its implementation. Methods: Peer-reviewed clinical trials and meta-analyses of EFT in the treatment of PTSD are assessed to identify the characteristics of the approach that render it suitable for the treatment of PTSD. Results: The literature demonstrates that remediation of PTSD and comorbid conditions is typically accomplished within brief time frames, ranging from one session for phobias to between four and ten sessions for PTSD. Clinical EFT has been shown to regulate stress hormones and limbic function and to improve various neurologic markers of general health. The epigenetic effects of EFT include upregulation of immunity genes and downregulation of inflammation genes. Six dismantling studies have indicated that the acupressure component of EFT is an active ingredient and not placebo. Conclusions: Seven empirically supported strengths of the approach were identified that make it especially suitable for use with veterans and active military: (1) the depth and breadth of treatment effects; (2) the relatively brief timeframes required for successful treatment; (3) the low risk of adverse events; (4) the minimal training time required for the approach to be applied effectively; (5) the simultaneous reduction of physical and psychologic symptoms; (6) the utility and cost-effectiveness of clinical EFT in a large group format; and (7) the method's adaptability to online and telemedicine applications.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital health technology and diabetes management.
Abstract: Diabetes care is largely dependent on patient self-management and empowerment, given that patients with diabetes must make numerous daily decisions as to what to eat, when to exercise, and determine their insulin dose and timing if required. In addition, patients and providers are generating vast amounts of data from many sources, including electronic medical records, insulin pumps, sensors, glucometers, and other wearables, as well as evolving genomic, proteomic, metabolomics, and microbiomic data. Multiple digital tools and apps have been developed to assist patients to choose wisely, and to enhance their compliance by using motivational tools and incorporating incentives from social media and gaming techniques. Healthcare teams (HCTs) and health administrators benefit from digital developments that sift through the enormous amounts of patient-generated data. Data are acquired, integrated, analyzed, and presented in a self-explanatory manner, highlighting important trends and items that require attention. The use of decision support systems may propose data-driven actions that, for the most, require final approval by the patient or physician before execution and, once implemented, may improve patient outcomes. The digital diabetes clinic aims to incorporate all digital patient data and provide individually tailored virtual or face-to-face visits to those persons who need them most. Digital diabetes care has demonstrated only modest HbA1c reduction in multiple studies and borderline cost-effectiveness, although patient satisfaction appears to be increased. Better understanding of the barriers to digital diabetes care and identification of unmet needs may yield improved utilization of this evolving technology in a safe, effective, and cost-saving manner.
Label Included: 0

Title: Teledermatology: A Review and Update.
Abstract: Telemedicine is slowly transforming the way in which healthcare is delivered and has the potential to improve access to subspecialty expertise, reduce healthcare costs, and improve the overall quality of care. While many subspecialty fields within medicine today have either experimented with or begun to implement telemedicine platforms to enable remote consultation and care, dermatology is particularly suited for this care system as skin disorders are uniquely visible to the human eye. Through teledermatology, diagnostic images of skin disorders with accompanying clinical histories can be remotely reviewed by teledermatologists by any number of modalities, such as photographic clinical images or live video teleconferencing. Diagnoses and treatment recommendations can then be rendered and implemented remotely. The evidence to date supports both its diagnostic and treatment accuracy and its cost effectiveness. Administrative, regulatory, privacy, and reimbursement policies surrounding this dynamic field continue to evolve. In this review, we examine the history, evidence, and administrative landscape surrounding teledermatology and discuss current practice guidelines and ongoing controversies.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Scoping Review of Economic Evaluations Alongside Randomised Controlled Trials of Home Monitoring in Chronic Disease Management.
Abstract: Many countries have considered telemedicine and home monitoring of patients as a solution to the demographic challenges that health-care systems face. However, reviews of economic evaluations of telemedicine have identified methodological problems in many studies as they do not comply with guidelines. The aim of this study was to examine economic evaluations alongside randomised controlled trials of home monitoring in chronic disease management and hereby to explore the resources included in the programme costs, the types of health-care utilisation that change as a result of home monitoring and discuss the value of economic evaluation alongside randomised controlled trials of home monitoring on the basis of the studies identified. A scoping review of economic evaluations of home monitoring of patients with chronic disease based on randomised controlled trials and including information on the programme costs and the costs of equipment was carried out based on a Medline (PubMed) search. Nine studies met the inclusion criteria. All studies include both costs of equipment and use of staff, but there is large variation in the types of equipment and types of tasks for the staff included in the costs. Equipment costs constituted 16-73% of the total programme costs. In six of the nine studies, home monitoring resulted in a reduction in primary care or emergency contacts. However, in total, home monitoring resulted in increased average costs per patient in six studies and reduced costs in three of the nine studies. The review is limited by the small number of studies found and the restriction to randomised controlled trials, which can be problematic in this area due to lack of blinding of patients and healthcare professionals and the difficulty of implementing organisational changes in hospital departments for the limited period of a trial. Furthermore, our results may be based on assessments of older telemedicine interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tele-neurology in sub-Saharan Africa: A systematic review of the literature.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The rapid advancement in telecommunications on the African continent has opened up avenues for improving medical care to underserved populations. Although the greatest burden of neurological disorders is borne by Low-and-Middle Income Countries (LMICs) including sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), there is a profound paucity of neurologists to serve the population. Telemedicine presents a promising avenue for effective mobilization and utilization of the few neurologists in Africa.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the published literature on the use of telemedicine for improved care and outcomes for patients with neurological disorders in SSA.
METHODS: We searched PubMed and Cochrane library from January 1, 1980 to April 30, 2017 using the following keywords: "Telemedicine neurology Africa", "Teleneurology Africa", "Telestroke Africa", "Telerehabilitation Africa", "Telemedicine for epilepsy", "Telemedicine for Parkinson's disease Africa", "Telemedicine for dementia Africa", "Telehealth neurology Africa". Our inclusion criteria were randomized controlled trials, or case series that reported the utilization of telemedicine for care/education of individuals with neurological disorders in sub-Saharan Africa.
RESULTS: This search yielded 6 abstracts. By consensus between two investigators, 1 publication met the criteria for inclusion and further review. The one study identified utilized telemedicine for the purpose of improving education/knowledge of 16 doctors and 17 allied health professionals in Parkinson's disease (PD) in Cameroon. The study noted feasibility and satisfaction of participants with telemedicine as well as improved knowledge base of participants after the educational course but noted access to healthcare by patients did not change. No studies have evaluated the use of telemedicine for care of patients with neurological disorders.
CONCLUSION: The indication is that teleneurology may be feasible in SSA and studies are needed to assess feasibility, acceptability, efficacy, cost-effectiveness of this promising discipline of neurology in these resource-limited settings. We propose the setting up of trans‑continental, inter-regional, intra-regional, and national networks of neurologists to utilize teleneurology platforms to improve the reach of neurology care in SSA.
Label Included: 0

Title: A CONSULTATION GUIDE FOR ASSESSING THE APPLICABILITY OF HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES:A CASE STUDY.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The translation of research findings into policy and practice is crucially dependent on the applicability of such findings in a given decision-making context. We explored in a case study whether a generic consultation guide to assess the applicability of a health technology could be rapidly deployed and deliver useful insights.
METHODS: A consultation guide based on the context and implementation for complex interventions (CICI) framework was developed and piloted to assess the applicability of reinforced home-based palliative care in three European countries. Individual consultations in England and Germany and a panel discussion in Poland were completed.
RESULTS: Various barriers may hinder successful implementation of reinforced home-based palliative care in the three countries. Whilst the experts across all countries emphasized the lack of funding along with organization and structure as major barriers, information varied by country for many of the other identified barriers and facilitators. Participants in the pilot study provided positive feedback in terms of understanding the topic and purpose of the consultation, and both individual and panel consultations could be easily implemented.
CONCLUSIONS: In this case study, the consultation guide presented a pragmatic, ready-to-use tool to assess the applicability of a health technology. As shown here, it can be used in a generic manner without discrete empirical information on the technology in question or, ideally, makes use of specific information collected as part of a HTA. Further studies are needed to validate this guide and apply it to other types of health technologies and more diverse decision-making contexts.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects of non-medical switching on outcomes among patients prescribed tumor necrosis factor inhibitors.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate health care use and outcomes among patients who experienced a non-medical switch of their prescribed anti-tumor-necrosis-factor biological agent (anti-TNF) for cost containment reasons.
METHODS: Retrospective evaluation of Humedica electronic health records of patients ≥18 years old with anti-TNF treatment for immune conditions. Using natural language processing, stable patients who experienced a non-medical switch (for cost reasons) of their anti-TNF between 2007 and 2013 were identified (NMS cohort, n = 158) and matched to patients who did not (control cohort, n = 4804). Rates of office visits, emergency department visits, and hospitalizations at 30, 90, and 365 days following were evaluated. Medication-related adverse events, defined as subsequent medication change due to a side effect and/or efficacy-related reason were also compared.
RESULTS: Adjusted rates of office visits were higher among the NMS cohort than the control cohort at 30 (46.4% vs. 31.7%, p < .001), 90 (71.0% vs. 57.0%, p < .001), and 365 days (87.8% vs. 76.8%, p < .001). Rates of emergency department use and hospitalization were comparable between cohorts. The NMS cohort had higher adjusted rates of medication-related adverse consequences (both increased side effects and diminished efficacy) than the control cohort at 30 (13.8% vs. 4.0%, p = .003), 90 (31.6% vs 9.6%, p < .001), and 365 days (54.7% vs. 20.3%, p < .001). Compared with controls, the NMS cohort had higher adjusted rates of subsequent medication change within 1 year (27.82% vs. 13.9%, p = .001).
CONCLUSION: Non-medical switching among patients prescribed anti-TNFs was associated with increased health care use, medication-related side effects, and reports of diminished efficacy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness analysis of a multifactorial fall prevention intervention in older home care clients at risk for falling.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Falls among older adults can cause serious morbidity and pose economic burdens on society. Older age is a known risk factor for falls and age has been shown to influence the effectiveness of fall prevention programs. To our knowledge, no studies have explicitly investigated whether cost-effectiveness of a multifactorial fall prevention intervention (the intervention) is influenced by age. This economic evaluation explores: 1) the cost-effectiveness of a multifactorial fall prevention intervention compared to usual care for community-dwelling adults ≥ 75 years at risk of falling in Canada; and 2) the influence of age on the cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
METHODS: Net benefit regression was used to examine the cost-effectiveness of the intervention with willingness-to-pay values ranging from $0-$50,000. Effects were measured as change in the number of falls, from baseline to 6-month follow-up. Costs were measured using a societal perspective. The cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted for both the total sample and by age subgroups (75-84 and 85+ years).
RESULTS: For the total sample, the intervention was not economically attractive. However, the intervention was cost-effective at higher willingness-to-pay (WTP) (≥ $25,000) for adults 75-84 years and at lower WTP (< $5,000) for adults 85+ years.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of the intervention depends on age and decision makers' WTP to prevent falls. Understanding the influence of age on the cost-effectiveness of an intervention may help to target resources to those who benefit most.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Retrospectively registered. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00463658 (18 April 2007).
Label Included: 0

Title: Reducing the Global Burden of Cardiovascular Disease, Part 2: Prevention and Treatment of Cardiovascular Disease.
Abstract: In this second part of a 2-part series on the global burden of cardiovascular disease, we review the proven, effective approaches to the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease. We specifically review the management of acute cardiovascular diseases, including acute coronary syndromes and stroke; the care of cardiovascular disease in the ambulatory setting, including medical strategies for vascular disease, atrial fibrillation, and heart failure; surgical strategies for arterial revascularization, rheumatic and other valvular heart disease, and symptomatic bradyarrhythmia; and approaches to the prevention of cardiovascular disease, including lifestyle factors, blood pressure control, cholesterol-lowering, antithrombotic therapy, and fixed-dose combination therapy. We also discuss cardiovascular disease prevention in diabetes mellitus; digital health interventions; the importance of socioeconomic status and universal health coverage. We review building capacity for conduction cardiovascular intervention through strengthening healthcare systems, priority setting, and the role of cost effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Trends in the burden of varicella in UK general practice.
Abstract: Childhood varicella vaccination has not yet been introduced in the UK. To inform decision-making about future vaccine programmes, data on the burden of varicella in general practice over a 10-year period (01/01/2005-31/12/2014) was calculated by age and ethnicity, using anonymised data from >8 million individuals in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink. Varicella consultations peaked at 20 603 in 2007, then decreased annually in all age groups to 11 243 in 2014. Each year, consultation rates were common among infants, were highest among 1-3 year olds (61·2 consultations/1000 person-years in 2007, 39·7/1000 person-years in 2014) and then fell with increasing age to <1·0/1000 person-years at ages ⩾20 years. Varicella acquisition appeared to be delayed in some ethnic groups, with lower consultation rates for children aged <3 years but increased rates for older children and adults aged ⩽40 years among those of black African, Afro-Caribbean, South Asian or other Asian ethnicity. Decreasing general practice consultation rates over time could reflect changes in healthcare utilisation, with patients seeking care in alternative settings such as Accident and Emergency Departments, although current data prevent full assessment of this. Availability of data on varicella diagnoses across all health settings would enable estimation of the total healthcare burden due to varicella and the cost-effectiveness of introducing varicella vaccination.
Label Included: 0

Title: Assessment of Remote Heart Rhythm Sampling Using the AliveCor Heart Monitor to Screen for Atrial Fibrillation: The REHEARSE-AF Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Asymptomatic atrial fibrillation (AF) is increasingly common in the aging population and implicated in many ischemic strokes. Earlier identification of AF with appropriate anticoagulation may decrease stroke morbidity and mortality.
METHODS: We conducted a randomized controlled trial of AF screening using an AliveCor Kardia monitor attached to a WiFi-enabled iPod to obtain ECGs (iECGs) in ambulatory patients. Patients ≥65 years of age with a CHADS-VASc score ≥2 free from AF were randomized to the iECG arm or routine care (RC). iECG participants acquired iECGs twice weekly over 12 months (plus additional iECGs if symptomatic) onto a secure study server with overread by an automated AF detection algorithm and by a cardiac physiologist and/or consultant cardiologist. Time to diagnosis of AF was the primary outcome measure. The overall cost of the devices, ECG interpretation, and patient management were captured and used to generate the cost per AF diagnosis in iECG patients. Clinical events and patient attitudes/experience were also evaluated.
RESULTS: We studied 1001 patients (500 iECG, 501 RC) who were 72.6±5.4 years of age; 534 were female. Mean CHADS-VASc score was 3.0 (heart failure, 1.4%; hypertension, 54%; diabetes mellitus, 30%; prior stroke/transient ischemic attack, 6.5%; arterial disease, 15.9%; all CHADS-VASc risk factors were evenly distributed between groups). Nineteen patients in the iECG group were diagnosed with AF over the 12-month study period versus 5 in the RC arm (hazard ratio, 3.9; 95% confidence interval=1.4-10.4; P=0.007) at a cost per AF diagnosis of $10 780 (£8255). There was a similar number of stroke/transient ischemic attack/systemic embolic events (6 versus 10, iECG versus RC; hazard ratio=0.61; 95% confidence interval=0.22-1.69; P=0.34). The majority of iECG patients were satisfied with the device, finding it easy to use without restricting activities or causing anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening with twice-weekly single-lead iECG with remote interpretation in ambulatory patients ≥65 years of age at increased risk of stroke is significantly more likely to identify incident AF than RC over a 12-month period. This approach is also highly acceptable to this group of patients, supporting further evaluation in an appropriately powered, event-driven clinical trial.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.isrctn.com. Unique identifier: ISRCTN10709813.
Label Included: 0

Title: Is There Evidence of Cost Benefits of Electronic Medical Records, Standards, or Interoperability in Hospital Information Systems? Overview of Systematic Reviews.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Electronic health (eHealth) interventions may improve the quality of care by providing timely, accessible information about one patient or an entire population. Electronic patient care information forms the nucleus of computerized health information systems. However, interoperability among systems depends on the adoption of information standards. Additionally, investing in technology systems requires cost-effectiveness studies to ensure the sustainability of processes for stakeholders.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess cost-effectiveness of the use of electronically available inpatient data systems, health information exchange, or standards to support interoperability among systems.
METHODS: An overview of systematic reviews was conducted, assessing the MEDLINE, Cochrane Library, LILACS, and IEEE Library databases to identify relevant studies published through February 2016. The search was supplemented by citations from the selected papers. The primary outcome sought the cost-effectiveness, and the secondary outcome was the impact on quality of care. Independent reviewers selected studies, and disagreement was resolved by consensus. The quality of the included studies was evaluated using a measurement tool to assess systematic reviews (AMSTAR).
RESULTS: The primary search identified 286 papers, and two papers were manually included. A total of 211 were systematic reviews. From the 20 studies that were selected after screening the title and abstract, 14 were deemed ineligible, and six met the inclusion criteria. The interventions did not show a measurable effect on cost-effectiveness. Despite the limited number of studies, the heterogeneity of electronic systems reported, and the types of intervention in hospital routines, it was possible to identify some preliminary benefits in quality of care. Hospital information systems, along with information sharing, had the potential to improve clinical practice by reducing staff errors or incidents, improving automated harm detection, monitoring infections more effectively, and enhancing the continuity of care during physician handoffs.
CONCLUSIONS: This review identified some benefits in the quality of care but did not provide evidence that the implementation of eHealth interventions had a measurable impact on cost-effectiveness in hospital settings. However, further evidence is needed to infer the impact of standards adoption or interoperability in cost benefits of health care; this in turn requires further research.
Label Included: 0

Title: A large cluster randomized trial of outcome-based pathways to improve home-based wound care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although not always recognized as a pressing health care problem, wounds are a common, complex and costly condition. The burden of treating wounds is growing rapidly due to increasing health care costs, an aging population and a sharp rise in the incidence of diabetes and obesity worldwide. The Integrated Client Care (ICC) Project was a multi-year initiative to develop and test a new, integrated model of wound care within the home care sector in Ontario, Canada to improve health outcomes for patients and decrease system costs.
METHODS: Cluster randomized trial, with allocation of intervention randomized at the cluster level (14 home care centers) and analysis of outcomes based on individual-level data (patients). Primary analysis was an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis. Two wound types, diabetic foot ulcers and pilonidal sinus, were selected as tracer conditions to assess the impact of the intervention on two different patient populations. Time to successful discharge from home care was analyzed using multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression. Hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) are presented.
RESULTS: A total of 12,063 diabetic foot ulcer patients and 1954 pilonidal sinus patient records were available for analysis. No appreciable differences were observed between patients in the control and intervention arms for either of the primary or secondary analyses in either condition group. In the diabetic foot ulcer group, 72.7% patients in the control arm and 73.6% patients in the intervention arm were discharged in the follow-up period (HR 1.05; 95% CI 0.94 to 1.17). In the pilonidal sinus group, 91.0% patients in the control arm and 89.0% patients in the intervention arm were discharged in the follow-up period (HR 0.96; 95% CI 0.82 to 1.12).
CONCLUSION: As implemented, the ICC intervention was not effective, most likely due to failure of implementation, and is, therefore, not ready for widespread implementation in Ontario. Significant work remains to be done to correct the implementation process so that the concept of outcome-based health care can be properly evaluated.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, ID: NCT01573832 . Registered on 12 January 2012.
Label Included: 0

Title: Leveraging EHRs for patient engagement: perspectives on tailored program outreach.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Electronic health records (EHRs) present healthcare delivery systems with scalable, cost-effective opportunities to promote lifestyle programs among patients at high risk for type 2 diabetes, yet little consensus exists on strategies to enhance patient engagement. We explored patient perspectives on program outreach messages containing content tailored to EHR-derived diabetes risk factors-a theory-driven strategy to increase the persuasiveness of health communications.
STUDY DESIGN: Convergent mixed methods.
METHODS: Within an integrated healthcare delivery system, women with a history of gestational diabetes participated in 1 of 6 ethnic-specific focus groups to elicit diverse perspectives and a survey yielding quantitative data to contextualize qualitative responses.
RESULTS: The sample included 35 participants (80% racial/ethnic minorities; mean age = 36 years). Themes regarding tailored messages centered on diabetes risk communication (opposing attitudes about whether to feature diabetes risk factors), privacy (how and whether patient data should be accessed), authenticity (perceiving messages as personalized vs generically computer generated), and preferences for messages sent by one's personal physician. Trust in the medical profession and perceived risk for diabetes were similar to levels reported in comparable samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Patient reactions highlight the challenges of leveraging EHRs for tailored messages. Some viewed messages as caring reminders to take preventive action and others raised concerns over intrusiveness. Optimal lifestyle program outreach to improve quality of care for women at high risk for diabetes may require communication from personal physicians, careful development to mitigate concerns over privacy and authenticity, and techniques to counteract the threatening nature of personalized risk communication.
Label Included: 0

Title: Healthcare resource use and associated costs of hypoglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes prescribed sulfonylureas.
Abstract: AIMS: The objective of this study was to evaluate diabetes-related healthcare resource use and associated costs in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) treated with a sulfonylurea (SU), with and without hypoglycemia.
METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, patients 18years or older receiving SU monotherapy or as add-on to metformin were identified from a US healthcare claims database (MarketScan®). Of 113,743 patients (56.8% male, average age 62.6years), 61.6% were on SU/metformin dual therapy and 38.4% were on SU monotherapy, and 5% had one or more episodes of hypoglycemia during the 12-month follow-up period.
RESULTS: Adjusted for baseline characteristics, patients with hypoglycemia were three times more likely than those without to use emergency room services (OR 3.04, 95% CI: 2.82, 3.25), almost four times more likely to have inpatient admissions (OR 3.84, 95% CI: 3.58, 4.12), and had more frequent physician office visits (4.3 vs 3.0 visits, p<0.01) in the 12-month follow-up period. The adjusted annual diabetes-related medical expenditure was three times higher in patients with hypoglycemia compared with those without ($6884 vs $2392, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the higher healthcare utilization and costs associated with hypoglycemia in patients with T2DM treated with an SU.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using routinely recorded data in the UK to assess outcomes in a randomised controlled trial: The Trials of Access.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the UK, routinely recorded data may benefit prospective studies including randomised controlled trials (RCTs). In an on-going study, we aim to assess the feasibility of access and agreement of routinely recorded clinical and non-clinical data compared to data collected during a RCT using standard prospective methods. This paper will summarise available UK routinely recorded data sources and discuss our experience with the feasibility of accessing routinely recorded data for participants of a RCT before finally proposing recommendations for improving the access and implementation of routinely recorded data in RCTs.
METHODS: Setting: the case study RCT is the Standard and New Antiepileptic Drugs II (SANAD II) trial, a pragmatic, UK, multicentre, phase IV RCT assessing the clinical and cost-effectiveness of antiepileptic drug treatments for newly diagnosed epilepsy.
PARTICIPANTS: 98 participants have provided written consent to permit the request of routinely recorded data. Study procedures: routinely recorded clinical and non-clinical data were identified and data requested through formal applications from available data holders for the duration that participants have been recruited into SANAD II. The feasibility of accessing routinely recorded data during a RCT is assessed and recommendations for improving access proposed.
RESULTS: Secondary-care clinical and socioeconomic data is recorded on a national basis and can be accessed, although there are limitations in the application process. Primary-care data are recorded by a number of organisations on a de-identified basis but access for specific individuals has not been feasible. Access to data recorded by non-clinical sources, including The Department for Work and Pensions and The Driving and Vehicle Licensing Agency, was not successful.
CONCLUSIONS: Recommendations discussed include further research to assess the attributes of routinely recorded data, an assessment of public perceptions and the development of strategies to collaboratively improve access to routinely recorded data for research.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: International Standard Randomised Controlled Trials, ISRCTN30294119 . Registered on 3 July 2012. EudraCT No: 2012-001884-64. Registered on 9 May 2012.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home monitoring after ambulatory implanted primary cardiac implantable electronic devices: The home ambulance pilot study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Home Monitoring (HM) system of cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) permits early detection of arrhythmias or device system failures. The aim of this pilot study was to examine how the safety and efficacy of the HM system in patients after ambulatory implanted primary CIEDs compare to patients with a standard procedure and hospitalization.
HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesized that HM and their modifications would be a useful extension of the present concepts for ambulatory implanted CIEDs.
METHODS: This retrospective analysis evaluates telemetric data obtained from 364 patients in an ambulatory single center over 6 years. Patients were assigned to an active group (n = 217), consisting of those who were discharged early on the day of implantation of the primary CIED, or to a control group (n = 147), consisting of those discharged and followed up with the HM system according to usual medical practices.
RESULTS: The mean duration of hospitalization was 73.2% shorter in the active group than in the control group, corresponding to 20.5 ± 13 fewer hours (95% confidence interval [CI]: 6.3-29.5; P < 0.01) spent in the hospital (7.5 ± 1.5 vs 28 ± 4.5 h). This shorter mean hospital stay was attributable to a 78.8% shorter postoperative period in the active group. The proportion of patients with treatment-related adverse events was 11% (n = 23) in the active group and 17% (n = 25) in the control group (95% CI: 5.5-8.3; P = 0.061). This 6% absolute risk reduction (95% CI: 3.3-9.1; P = 0.789) confirmed the noninferiority of the ambulatory implanted CIED when compared with standard management of these patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Early discharge with the HM system after ambulatory CIED implantation was safe and not inferior to the classic medical procedure. Thus, together with lower costs, HM and its modifications would be a useful extension of the present concepts for ambulatory implanted CIEDs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cervical Precancer Treatment in Low- and Middle-Income Countries: A Technology Overview.
Abstract: Cervical cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in women worldwide, with 90% of cases occurring in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). There has been a global effort to increase access to affordable screening in these settings; however, a corresponding increase in availability of effective and inexpensive treatment modalities for ablating or excising precancerous lesions is also needed to decrease mortality. This article reviews the current landscape of available and developing technologies for treatment of cervical precancer in LMICs. At present, the standard treatment of most precancerous lesions in LMICs is gas-based cryotherapy. This low-cost, effective technology is an expedient treatment in many areas; however, obtaining and transporting gas is often difficult, and unwieldy gas tanks are not conducive to mobile health campaigns. There are several promising ablative technologies in development that are gasless or require less gas than conventional cryotherapy. Although further evaluation of the efficacy and cost-effectiveness is needed, several of these technologies are safe and can now be implemented in LMICs. Nonsurgical therapies, such as therapeutic vaccines, antivirals, and topical applications, are also promising, but most remain in early-stage trials. The establishment of evidence-based standardized protocols for available treatments and the development and introduction of novel technologies are necessary steps in overcoming barriers to treatment in LMICs and decreasing the global burden of cervical cancer. Guidance from WHO on emerging treatment technologies is also needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Teledermatology: An updated overview of clinical applications and reimbursement policies.
Abstract: Telemedicine is an emerging field in healthcare that provides services from different medical specialties to patients all around the world. One of the specialties in telemedicine, teledermatology, has grown exponentially as a cost-effective way to implement dermatological healthcare to underserved areas and populations. This article reviews the literature that pertains to the cost-effectiveness, reliability, public access, patient satisfaction, and reimbursement policies of teledermatology. Teledermatology was found to be cost-effective and reliable in reducing in-person visits and time away from work, and allows for the faster delivery of care. However, reimbursement policies for teledermatology services are rather new and vary significantly from state to state. As public interest in and access to teledermatology continue to grow, the future of teledermatology depends on the development of new technology as well as quality improvement strategies and the evolution of sustainable reimbursement policies.
Label Included: 0

Title: How does the cellular phone help in epidemiological surveillance? A review of the scientific literature.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the field of epidemiological surveillance, no systematic literature review appears to exist of implemented projects using cellular phone technology.
METHOD: We performed a systematic literature review using the Pubmed and Scopus databases to retrieve articles published up to December 2015. We analyzed information reported in these publications according to the mobile health (mHealth) evidence reporting and assessment (mERA) checklist, and complemented this work with specific items related to epidemiology, in order to clarify the types of results reported and summarized in this context.
RESULTS: Thirty-three articles were selected and reviewed. Each article was related to a different project. Two mERA items were systematically and fully reported, while two others were never reported. Three projects were deployed in very specific zones. Most of the projects were implemented in Africa. Infectious diseases were the elements most monitored. Most projects were based on daily data collection and SMS transmission. Economic assessment was limited to SMS, mobile phone, and implementation costs.
DISCUSSION-CONCLUSION: Although suitable for epidemiologic surveillance, the mERA checklist needs further interpretation. The technical and transmission modes of cellular phone use varied greatly from one study to another. No evaluation of the interoperability capabilities of cellular phones with other applications or sub-systems was possible.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical and Economic Outcomes of Telemedicine Programs in the Intensive Care Unit: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of telemedicine programs in intensive care unit (Tele-ICU) on ICU or hospital mortality or ICU or hospital length of stay and to summarize available data on implementation cost of Tele-ICU.
METHODS: Controlled trails or observational studies assessing outcomes of interest were identified by searching 7 electronic databases from inception to July 2016 and related journals and conference literatures between 2000 and 2016. Two reviewers independently screened searched records, extracted data, and assessed the quality of included studies. Random-effect models were applied to meta-analyses and sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Nineteen of 1035 records fulfilled the inclusion criteria. The pooled effects demonstrated that Tele-ICU programs were associated with reductions in ICU mortality (15 studies; risk ratio [RR], 0.83; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.72 to 0.96; P = .01), hospital mortality (13 studies; RR, 0.74; 95% CIs, 0.58 to 0.96; P = .02), and ICU length of stay (9 studies; mean difference [MD], -0.63; 95% CI, -0.28 to 0.17; P = .007). However, there is no significant association between the reduction in hospital length of stay and Tele-ICU programs. Summary data concerning costs suggested approximately US$50 000 to US$100 000 per Tele-ICU bed was required to implement Tele-ICU programs for the first year. Hospital costs of US$2600 reduction to US$5600 increase per patient were estimated using Tele-ICU programs.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review and meta-analysis provided limited evidence that Tele-ICU approaches may reduce the ICU and hospital mortality, shorten the ICU length of stay, but have no significant effect in hospital length of stay. Implementation of Tele-ICU programs substantially costs and its long-term cost-effectiveness is still unclear.
Label Included: 0

Title: Development and rationale for a multifactorial, randomized controlled trial to test strategies to promote adherence to complex drug regimens among older adults.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic conditions are often responsible for self-managing complex, multi-drug regimens with minimal professional clinical support. While numerous interventions to promote and support medication adherence have been tested, most have had limited success or have been too resource-intensive for real-world implementation.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of multiple low-cost, technology-enabled strategies, alone and in combination, for promoting medication regimen adherence among older adults.
METHODS: Older, English or Spanish-speaking patients on complex drug regimens (N=1505) will be recruited from a community health system in Chicago, IL. Enrolled patients will be randomized to one of four study arms, receiving either: 1) enhanced usual care alone; 2) daily medication reminders via SMS text messages; 3) medication monitoring via a patient portal-based assessment; or 4) both SMS text message reminders and portal-based medication monitoring. The primary outcome of the study is medication adherence, which will be assessed via multiple measures at baseline, 2months, and 6months. The effect of intervention strategies on clinical markers (hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure, cholesterol level), as well as intervention fidelity and the barriers and costs of implementation will also be evaluated.
CONCLUSIONS: This randomized controlled trial will evaluate the impact of various low-cost intervention strategies on adherence to complex medication regimens and will explore barriers to implementation. If the studied intervention strategies are shown to be effective, then these approaches could be effectively deployed across a diverse range of clinical settings and patient populations.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered on clinicaltrials.govNCT02820753.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Systematic Review of Digital Interventions for Improving the Diet and Physical Activity Behaviors of Adolescents.
Abstract: Many adolescents have poor diet and physical activity behaviors, which can lead to the development of noncommunicable diseases in later life. Digital platforms offer inexpensive means of delivering health interventions, but little is known about their effectiveness. This systematic review was conducted to synthesize evidence on the effectiveness of digital interventions to improve diet quality and increase physical activity in adolescents, to effective intervention components and to assess the cost-effectiveness of these interventions. Following a systematic search, abstracts were assessed against inclusion criteria, and data extraction and quality assessment were performed for included studies. Data were analyzed to identify key features that are associated with significant improvement in behavior. A total of 27 studies met inclusion criteria. Most (n = 15) were Web site interventions. Other delivery methods were text messages, games, multicomponent interventions, emails, and social media. Significant behavior change was often seen when interventions included education, goal setting, self-monitoring, and parental involvement. None of the publications reported cost-effectiveness. Due to heterogeneity of studies, meta-analysis was not feasible.It is possible to effect significant health behavior change in adolescents through digital interventions that incorporate education, goal setting, self-monitoring, and parental involvement. Most of the evidence relates to Web sites and further research into alternate media is needed, and longer term outcomes should be evaluated. There is a paucity of data on the cost-effectiveness of digital health interventions, and future trials should report these data.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost analysis of telerehabilitation after arthroscopic subacromial decompression.
Abstract: Background Subacromial impingement syndrome poses a substantial socioeconomic burden, leading to significant consumption of healthcare. Health systems are calling for greater evidence of economic impacts of particular healthcare services. Telerehabilitation programmes have the potential to reduce costs and improve patient access as an alternative to traditional care. Cost analysis has been traditionally included in study protocols and results, although the reliability and research methodology have frequently been under debate. The aim of this study was to compare costs related to a telerehabilitation programme versus conventional physiotherapy following subacromial decompression surgery (ASD). Methods The study was embedded in a randomised controlled trial. The economic analysis was based on the perspective of the health sector and the human capital method. Only the costs associated with the provision of physiotherapy services were taken into account. Costs were measured during the intervention period between baseline and 12 weeks for both groups. Student's t-test was used to compare independent variables between the two groups, with a 95% confidence interval for the estimates and real costs. Results The estimated total cost analysis shows a preliminary cost differential in favour of the telerehabilitation group, meaning that for each participant's total intervention, telerehabilitation saves 29.8% of the costs. Real cost analysis, only for received treatments, shows a cost differential in favour of telerehabilitation, meaning that for each participant's total intervention, telerehabilitation saves 22.15% of the costs incurred for conventional rehabilitation. Conclusions Our study provides direct and meaningful information about telerehabilitation opportunities and can be an essential component in further cost evaluations for different strategies after surgical procedures. This study demonstrates that there was a trend towards lower healthcare costs after ASD. Managers now have the responsibility to decide whether to implement telerehabilitation based on clinical and economic data.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects of telemonitoring on glycaemic control and healthcare costs in type 2 diabetes: A randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: Introduction This study examined the effect of a telehealth intervention on the control of type 2 diabetes and subsequent potential cost-savings to the health system. Methods This prospective randomised controlled trial randomised adults with type 2 diabetes to the intervention (diabetes program) or control (usual care) arm. Key eligibility criteria included an HbA1c level of at least 58 mmol/mol (7.5%) without severe or unstable comorbidities. All participants continued their usual healthcare, but participants in the intervention arm received additional diabetes care from a diabetes care coordinator via a home monitor that captured clinical measures. Data collected included biomedical, quality of life measures and healthcare (GP, outpatient and inpatient) costs. The primary outcome was HbA1c collected at baseline and 6 months. Analysis was conducted on a complete case intention-to-treat basis. The healthcare system perspective was taken to calculate the incremental cost per percentage-point reduction in HbA1c. Results Results from 63 participants from each study arm were analysed. HbA1c in the intervention group decreased from a median 68 mmol/mol (8.4%) to 58 mmol/mol (7.5%), and remained unchanged in the control group at median 65 mmol/mol (8.1%) at the 6-month endpoint. The intervention effect on HbA1c change was statistically significant ( p = .004). Total healthcare costs in the intervention group, including the intervention costs, were lower (mean $3781 vs. $4662; p < .001) compared with usual care. Discussion There was a clinically meaningful and statistically significant benefit from the telehealth intervention at a lower cost; thus, telehealth was cost-saving and produced greater health benefits compared with usual care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness analysis of telephone-based support for the management of pressure ulcers in people with spinal cord injury in India and Bangladesh.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine from a societal perspective the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of telephone-based support for management of pressure ulcers.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis of a randomised clinical trial.
SETTING: Tertiary centre in India and Bangladesh.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted alongside a randomised clinical trial comparing 12 weeks of telephone-based support (intervention group) with usual care (control group). The analyses evaluated costs and health outcomes in terms of cm2 reduction of pressure ulcers size and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. All costs were in Indian Rupees (INR) and then converted to US dollars (USD).
RESULTS: The mean (95% confidence interval) between-group difference for the reduction in size of pressure ulcers was 0.53 (-3.12 to 4.32) cm2, favouring the intervention group. The corresponding QALYs were 0.027 (0.004-0.051), favouring the intervention group. The mean total cost per participant in the intervention group was INR 43 781 (USD 2460) compared to INR 42 561 (USD 2391) for the control group. The per participant cost of delivering the intervention was INR 2110 (USD 119). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was INR 2306 (USD 130) per additional cm2 reduction in the size of the pressure ulcer and INR 44 915 (USD 2523) per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: In terms of QALYs, telephone-based support to help people manage pressure ulcers at home provides good value for money and has an 87% probability of being cost-effective, based on 3 times gross domestic product. Sensitivity analyses were performed using the overall cost data with and without productivity costs, and did not alter this conclusion.
Label Included: 0

Title: Paediatric fracture clinic re-design: Incorporating a virtual fracture clinic.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The use of virtual fracture clinics (VFCs) and home management protocols is increasing. The main aim of this research is to determine whether a paediatric home management programme and VFC can be used safely to manage a range of suitable fractures in children.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Protocols for the home management of stable paediatric fractures were designed by two consultant paediatric orthopaedic surgeons. These were for children between the ages of 18 months and 15 years 364 days. A new tariff was negotiated with the clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) for a VFC new patient review. A prospective analysis was performed for the first 2 months of the programme. Further review periods were undertaken 6 months later and 12 months after that.
RESULTS: Sixty-five patients were reviewed in the first 10 VFCs (mean 6.5 cases per week). After 6 months, 164 patients were reviewed in a 3-month period in the VFC, a mean of 11 cases per week. A year later the number of patients reviewed in the VFC had continued to increase with a total of 253 patients in 3 months, mean 21 cases per week. This gave a saving to the CCG of £45,000 per year and to the hospital of £106,000 per year. There were no serious adverse consequences to any patients from the use of the pathway.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: We have reported on the introduction of a paediatric VFC and a home management programme for stable paediatric fractures. We are not aware of any reports in the orthopaedic literature that have described such a comprehensive and innovative re-organisation of paediatric fracture services. We estimate that the NHS could save approximately £10.1 million if all hospitals in England introduced this.
Label Included: 0

Title: Protocol for the mWellcare trial: a multicentre, cluster randomised, 12-month, controlled trial to compare the effectiveness of mWellcare, an mHealth system for an integrated management of patients with hypertension and diabetes, versus enhanced usual care in India.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Rising burden of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes is a major challenge to the health system in India. Innovative approaches such as mobile phone technology (mHealth) for electronic decision support in delivering evidence-based and integrated care for hypertension, diabetes and comorbid depression have potential to transform the primary healthcare system. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: mWellcare trial is a multicentre, cluster randomised controlled trial evaluating the clinical and cost-effectiveness of a mHealth system and nurse managed care for people with hypertension and diabetes in rural India. mWellcare system is an Android-based mobile application designed to generate algorithm-based clinical management prompts for treating hypertension and diabetes and also capable of storing health records, sending alerts and reminders for follow-up and adherence to medication. We recruited a total of 3702 participants from 40 Community Health Centres (CHCs), with ≥90 at each of the CHCs in the intervention and control (enhanced care) arms. The primary outcome is the difference in mean change (from baseline to 1 year) in systolic blood pressure and glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) between the two treatment arms. The secondary outcomes are difference in mean change from baseline to 1 year in fasting plasma glucose, total cholesterol, predicted 10-year risk of CVD, depression, smoking behaviour, body mass index and alcohol use between the two treatment arms and cost-effectiveness.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has been approved by the institutional Ethics Committees at Public Health Foundation of India and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Findings will be disseminated widely through peer-reviewed publications, conference presentations and other mechanisms.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: mWellcare trial is registered with Clinicaltrial.gov (Registration number NCT02480062; Pre-results) and Clinical Trial Registry of India (Registration number CTRI/2016/02/006641). The current version of the protocol is Version 2 dated 19 October 2015 and the study sponsor is Public Health Foundation of India, Gurgaon, India (www.phfi.org).
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic and social impact of increased cardiac rehabilitation uptake and cardiac telerehabilitation in Belgium - a cost-benefit analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation for ischaemic heart disease effectively reduces cardiovascular readmission rate and mortality. Current uptake rates however, remain low. This study assesses the social and economic impact of increasing centre-based cardiac rehabilitation uptake and the additional value of cardiac telerehabilitation using cost-benefit analysis (CBA) in Belgium.
METHODS: Cost-benefit analysis was conducted to analyse three scenarios: (1) current situation: 20% uptake rate of cardiac rehabilitation; (2) alternative scenario one: 40% uptake rate of cardiac rehabilitation; and (3) alternative scenario two: 20% uptake of cardiac rehabilitation and 20% uptake of both cardiac rehabilitation and telerehabilitation. Impacts considered included cardiac (tele)rehabilitation programme costs, direct inpatient costs, productivity losses and burden of disease.
RESULTS: Compared to the current situation, there was a net total monetised benefit of 9.18 M€ and 9.10 M€ for scenarios one and two, respectively. Disability Adjusted Life Years were 12,805-12,980 years lower than the current situation. This resulted in a benefit-cost ratio of 1.52 and 1.43 for scenarios one and two, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased cardiac rehabilitation uptake rates can reduce the burden of disease, and the resulting benefits exceed its costs. This research supports the necessity for greater promotion and routine referral to cardiac rehabilitation to be made standard practice. The implementation of telerehabilitation as an adjunct is to be encouraged, especially for those patients unable to attend centre-based cardiac rehabilitation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of an android phone application for automated text messages in international settings: A case study in an HIV clinical trial in St. Petersburg, Russia.
Abstract: BACKGROUND/AIMS: Reproducible outcomes in clinical trials depend on adherence to study protocol. Short message service (also known as text message) reminders have been shown to improve clinical trial adherence in the United States and elsewhere. However, due to systematic differences in mobile data plans, languages, and technology, these systems are not easily translated to international settings.
METHODS: To gauge technical capabilities for international projects, we developed SMSMessenger, an automated Android application that uses a US server to send medication reminders to participants in a clinical trial in St. Petersburg, Russia (Zinc for HIV disease among alcohol users-a randomized controlled trial in the Russia Alcohol Research Collaboration on HIV/AIDS cohort). The application is downloaded once onto an Android study phone. When it is time for the text message reminders to be sent, study personnel access the application on a local phone, which in turn accesses the existing clinical trial database hosted on a US web server. The application retrieves a list of participants with the following information: phone number, whether a message should be received at that time, and the appropriate text of the message. The application is capable of storing multiple outgoing messages. With a few clicks, text messages are sent to study participants who can reply directly to the message. Study staff can check the local phone for incoming messages. The SMSMessenger application uses an existing clinical trial database and is able to receive real-time updates. All communications between the application and server are encrypted, and phone numbers are stored in a secure database behind a firewall. No sensitive data are stored on the phone, as outgoing messages are sent through the application and not by messaging features on the phone itself. Messages are sent simultaneously to study participants, which reduces the burden on local study staff. Costs and setup are minimal. The only local requirements are an Android phone and data plan.
CONCLUSION: The SMSMessenger technology could be modified to be applied anywhere in the world, in any language, script, or alphabet, and for many different purposes. The novel application of this existing low-cost technology can improve the usefulness of text messaging in advancing the goals of international clinical trials.
Label Included: 0

Title: Investigating Cost Implications of Incorporating Level III At-Home Testing into a Polysomnography Based Sleep Medicine Program Using Administrative Data.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Obstructive sleep apnea is a common problem, requiring expensive in-lab polysomnography for proper diagnosis. Home monitoring can provide an alternative to in-lab testing for a subset of OSA patients. The objective of this project was to investigate the effect of incorporating home testing into an OSA program at a large, tertiary sleep disorders centre.
METHODS: The Sleep Disorders Centre in Saskatoon, Canada, has been incorporating at-home testing into their diagnostic pathways since 2006. Administrative data from 2007 to 2013 were extracted (10030 patients) and the flow of patients through the program was followed from diagnosis to treatment. Costs were estimated using 2014 pricing and were stratified by disease attributes and sensitivity analysis was applied.
RESULTS: The overall costs per patient were $627.40, with $419.20 for at-home testing and $746.20 for in-lab testing. The cost of home management would rise to $515 if all negative tests were required to be confirmed by an in-lab PSG.
DISCUSSION: Our review suggests that at-home testing can be cost-effective alternative to in-lab testing when applied to the correct population, specifically, those with a high pretest probability of obstructive sleep apnea and an absence of significant comorbidities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telestroke.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This study aims to describe the current state of telestroke clinical applications and policies, in addition to key technical and operational aspects of the telemedicine practice.
RECENT FINDINGS: Delivery of telestroke services for neurovascular care expanded from the intravenous alteplase decision and administration in acute emergency department settings to a continuum of services in mobile and inpatient stroke units, intensive care units, virtual stroke clinics, rehabilitation, and clinical research. Telestroke cost-effectiveness is well established from multiple perspectives. Stroke centers, certification agencies, and national registries have made essential recommendations regarding telestroke quality measures monitoring and reporting. Telestroke continues to bring neurovascular expertise to resource-restricted areas with advanced virtual communication techniques, optimizing stroke care. Future research should aim at broadening telestroke technology applications, while improving quality and reducing the delivery-associated cost and resources. Comprehensive multidisciplinary virtual telestroke centers that cover all aspects of stroke management might become available in the future.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparative Cost Analysis: Teleurology vs Conventional Face-to-Face Clinics.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare costs associated with teleurology vs face-to-face clinic visits for initial outpatient hematuria evaluation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The analysis included 3 cost domains: transportation, clinic operations, and patient time. Transportation cost was based on standard government travel reimbursement. Clinic staff cost was based on hourly salary plus fringe benefits. For a face-to-face clinic encounter, patient time included time spent for travel, parking, walking to and from clinic, checking in and checking out, nursing evaluation, urologic evaluation, laboratory, and waiting. Patient time cost was based on the Federal minimum wage. Provider and laboratory times were excluded from the cost analysis as these were similar for both encounters.
RESULTS: We included 400 hematuria evaluations: 300 teleurology and 100 face-to-face. Both groups had similar median age (63 vs 64 years, P = .48) and median travel distance/time (58 vs 54 miles, P = .19; 94 vs 82 minutes, P = .09, respectively). Average patient time was greater for face-to-face encounters (266 vs 70 minutes teleurology, P < .001). Transportation was the primary driver of overall costs ($83.47 per encounter), followed by patient time ($32.87/encounter) and clinic staff cost ($18.68/encounter). The average cost per encounter was $135.02 for face-to-face clinic vs $10.95 for teleurology (P < .001) exclusive of provider and laboratory times. Cost savings associated with each telehematuria encounter totaled $124.07.
CONCLUSION: Teleurology offers considerable cost savings of $124 per encounter for the initial evaluation of hematuria compared to face-to-face clinic. With 1.5 million annual hematuria encounters nationally, implementation of teleurology for hematuria evaluation offers cost savings approaching $200 million per year.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pragmatic Randomized, Controlled Trial of Patient Navigators and Enhanced Personal Health Records in CKD.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Patient navigators and enhanced personal health records improve the quality of health care delivered in other disease states. We aimed to develop a navigator program for patients with CKD and an electronic health record-based enhanced personal health record to disseminate CKD stage-specific goals of care and education. We also conducted a pragmatic randomized clinical trial to compare the effect of a navigator program for patients with CKD with enhanced personal health record and compare their combination compared with usual care among patients with CKD stage 3b/4.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: Two hundred and nine patients from six outpatient clinics (in both primary care and nephrology settings) were randomized in a 2×2 factorial design into four-study groups: (1) enhanced personal health record only, (2) patient navigator only, (3) both, and (4) usual care (control) group. Primary outcome measure was the change in eGFR over a 2-year follow-up period. Secondary outcome measures included acquisition of appropriate CKD-related laboratory measures, specialty referrals, and hospitalization rates.
RESULTS: Median age of the study population was 68 years old, and 75% were white. At study entry, 54% of patients were followed by nephrologists, and 88% were on renin-angiotensin system blockers. After a 2-year follow-up, rate of decline in eGFR was similar across the four groups (P=0.19). Measurements of CKD-related laboratory parameters were not significantly different among the groups. Furthermore, referral for dialysis education and vascular access placement, emergency room visits, and hospitalization rates were not statistically significant different between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: We successfully developed a patient navigator program and an enhanced personal health record for the CKD population. However, there were no differences in eGFR decline and other outcomes among the study groups. Larger and long-term studies along with cost-effectiveness analyses are needed to evaluate the role of patient navigators and patient education through an enhanced personal health record in those with CKD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of metformin on cardiovascular disease: a meta-analysis of randomised trials among people with type 2 diabetes.
Abstract: AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Metformin is the most-prescribed oral medication to lower blood glucose worldwide. Yet previous systematic reviews have raised doubts about its effectiveness in reducing risk of cardiovascular disease, the most costly complication of type 2 diabetes. We aimed to systematically identify and pool randomised trials reporting cardiovascular outcomes in which the effect of metformin was 'isolated' through comparison to diet, lifestyle or placebo.
METHODS: We performed an electronic literature search of MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library. We also manually screened the reference lists of previous meta-analyses of trials of metformin identified through a MEDLINE search. We included randomised controlled trials of adults with type 2 diabetes comparing any dose and preparation of oral metformin with no intervention, placebo or a lifestyle intervention and reporting mortality or a cardiovascular outcome.
RESULTS: We included ten articles reporting 13 trials (including a total of 2079 individuals with type 2 diabetes allocated to metformin and a similar number to comparison groups) of which only four compared metformin with placebo and collected data on cardiovascular outcomes. Participants were mainly white, aged ≤65 years, overweight/obese and with poor glycaemic control. Summary estimates were based on a small number of events: 416 myocardial infarctions/ischaemic heart disease events in seven studies and 111 strokes in four studies. The UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) contributed the majority of data to the summary estimates, with weights ranging from 52.3% for myocardial infarction to 70.5% for stroke. All outcomes, with the exception of stroke, favoured metformin, with limited heterogeneity between studies, but none achieved statistical significance. Effect sizes (Mantel-Haenszel RR) were: all-cause mortality 0.96 (95% CI 0.84, 1.09); cardiovascular death 0.97 (95% CI 0.80, 1.16); myocardial infarction 0.89 (95% CI 0.75, 1.06); stroke 1.04 (95% CI 0.73, 1.48); and peripheral vascular disease 0.81 (95% CI 0.50, 1.31).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: There remains uncertainty about whether metformin reduces risk of cardiovascular disease among patients with type 2 diabetes, for whom it is the recommended first-line drug. Although this is mainly due to absence of evidence, it is unlikely that a definitive placebo-controlled cardiovascular endpoint trial among people with diabetes will be forthcoming. Alternative approaches to reduce the uncertainty include the use of electronic health records in long-term pragmatic evaluations, inclusion of metformin in factorial trials, publication of cardiovascular outcome data from adverse event reporting in trials of metformin and a cardiovascular endpoint trial of metformin among people without diabetes.
Label Included: 0

Title: AN INTEGRATED PERSPECTIVE ON THE ASSESSMENT OF TECHNOLOGIES: INTEGRATE-HTA.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Current health technology assessment (HTA) is not well equipped to assess complex technologies as insufficient attention is being paid to the diversity in patient characteristics and preferences, context, and implementation. Strategies to integrate these and several other aspects, such as ethical considerations, in a comprehensive assessment are missing. The aim of the European research project INTEGRATE-HTA was to develop a model for an integrated HTA of complex technologies.
METHODS: A multi-method, four-stage approach guided the development of the INTEGRATE-HTA Model: (i) definition of the different dimensions of information to be integrated, (ii) literature review of existing methods for integration, (iii) adjustment of concepts and methods for assessing distinct aspects of complex technologies in the frame of an integrated process, and (iv) application of the model in a case study and subsequent revisions.
RESULTS: The INTEGRATE-HTA Model consists of five steps, each involving stakeholders: (i) definition of the technology and the objective of the HTA; (ii) development of a logic model to provide a structured overview of the technology and the system in which it is embedded; (iii) evidence assessment on effectiveness, economic, ethical, legal, and socio-cultural aspects, taking variability of participants, context, implementation issues, and their interactions into account; (iv) populating the logic model with the data generated in step 3; (v) structured process of decision-making.
CONCLUSIONS: The INTEGRATE-HTA Model provides a structured process for integrated HTAs of complex technologies. Stakeholder involvement in all steps is essential as a means of ensuring relevance and meaningful interpretation of the evidence.
Label Included: 0

Title: Reducing Animal Use with a Biotelemetry-Enhanced Murine Model of Sepsis.
Abstract: Animal models of sepsis exhibit considerable variability in the temporal development of the physiologic response, which reduces the power of studies, particularly if interventions are tested at arbitrary time points. We developed a biotelemetry-based model of cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) that standardizes the testing of time-sensitive therapies to specific criteria of physiologic deterioration. In this study we seek to further define the variability in physiologic response to CLP sepsis and conduct a cost analysis detailing the potential for reducing animal usage. We have further characterized the variability in physiologic response after CLP in mice and determined peaks in the temporal distribution of points of physiologic decline. Testing therapies at physiologic thresholds reduces the variability found in historical fixed time-based models. Though initial cost is higher with biotelemetry, this is eventually offset by the significantly reduced number of mice needed to conduct physiologically relevant sepsis experiments.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of G5 Mobile continuous glucose monitoring device compared to self-monitoring of blood glucose alone for people with type 1 diabetes from the Canadian societal perspective.
Abstract: AIMS: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of real-time continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) compared to self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) alone in people with type 1 diabetes (T1DM) using multiple daily injections (MDI) from the Canadian societal perspective.
METHODS: The IMS CORE Diabetes Model (v.9.0) was used to assess the long-term (50 years) cost-effectiveness of real-time CGM (G5 Mobile CGM System; Dexcom, Inc., San Diego, CA) compared with SMBG alone for a cohort of adults with poorly-controlled T1DM. Treatment effects and baseline characteristics of patients were derived from the DIAMOND randomized controlled clinical trial; all other assumptions and costs were sourced from published research. The accuracy and clinical effectiveness of G5 Mobile CGM is the same as the G4 Platinum CGM used in the DIAMOND randomized clinical trial. Base case assumptions included (a) baseline HbA1c of 8.6%, (b) change in HbA1c of -1.0% for CGM users vs -0.4% for SMBG users, and (c) disutilities of -0.0142 for non-severe hypoglycemic events (NSHEs) and severe hypoglycemic events (SHEs) not requiring medical intervention, and -0.047 for SHEs requiring medical resources. Treatment costs and outcomes were discounted at 1.5% per year.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for the base case G5 Mobile CGM vs SMBG was $33,789 CAD/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Sensitivity analyses showed that base case results were most sensitive to changes in percentage reduction in hypoglycemic events and disutilities associated with hypoglycemic events. The base case results were minimally impacted by changes in baseline HbA1c level, incorporation of indirect costs, changes in the discount rate, and baseline utility of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this analysis demonstrate that G5 Mobile CGM is cost-effective within the population of adults with T1DM using MDI, assuming a Canadian willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000 CAD per QALY.
Label Included: 0

Title: Outreach syncope clinic managed by a nurse practitioner: Outcome and cost effectiveness.
Abstract: Introduction The purpose of this study was to assess the clinical and financial outcomes of a novel outreach syncope clinic. Methods We compared the clinical outcome of the Faint and Fall Clinic at the American Center (January-June 2016) with that of the University of Wisconsin Health and Clinics Faint and Fall Clinic (January 2013-December 2014). The American Center-Faint and Fall Clinic is run solely by a nurse practitioner, assisted by online faint-decision software and consultancy of a faint specialist through video-conferencing. Results Five hundred and twenty-eight consecutive patients were seen at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics-Faint and Fall Clinic and 68 patients at the American Center-Faint and Fall Clinic. The patients' clinical characteristics were similar except for a lower age in the American Center patients (45 ± 18 vs 51 ± 22, p = 0.03). Overall, a diagnosis was made within 45 days in 70% (95% confidence interval 66-74%) of the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics patients and 69% (95% confidence interval 58-80%) of the American Center patients, ( p = 0.9). A mean of 3.0 ± 1.6 tests per patient was used in the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics group compared to 1.5 ± 0.8 tests per patient in the American Center group, p = 0.001. Over the six-month study period, the total revenue at the American Center was US$152,597 (contribution margin of US$122,393 plus professional revenue of US$30,204). The total cost of the nurse practitioner including benefits was US$66,662 ((US$98,466 salary/year + 35.4% benefits)/2). Total revenue minus expenses resulted in a net profit of US$85,935. Discussion A nurse practitioner-run outreach syncope-clinic equipped with online faint-decision software and consultancy of a faint specialist through vedio-conferencing is feasible and financially self-sustainable. It allows the dissemination of standardized high-quality syncope care to patients who have no immediate access to a tertiary teaching hospital.
Label Included: 0

Title: Subgroup analysis of telehealthcare for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: the cluster-randomized Danish Telecare North Trial.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Results from the Danish cluster-randomized trial of telehealthcare to 1,225 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), the Danish Telecare North Trial, concluded that the telehealthcare solution was unlikely to be cost-effective, by applying international willingness-to-pay threshold values. The purpose of this article was to assess potential sources of variation across subgroups, which could explain overall cost-effectiveness results or be utilized in future economic studies in telehealthcare research.
METHODS: First, the cost-structures and cost-effectiveness across COPD severities were analyzed. Second, five additional subgroup analyses were conducted, focusing on differences in cost-effectiveness across a set of comorbidities, age-groups, genders, resource patterns (resource use in the social care sector prior to randomization), and delivery sites. All subgroups were investigated post hoc. In analyzing cost-effectiveness, two separate linear mixed-effects models with treatment-by-covariate interactions were applied: one for quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gain and one for total healthcare and social sector costs. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was used for each subgroup result in order to quantify the uncertainty around the cost-effectiveness results.
RESULTS: The study concludes that, across the COPD severities, patients with severe COPD (GOLD 3 classification) are likely to be the most cost-effective group. This is primarily due to lower hospital-admission and primary-care costs. Telehealthcare for patients younger than 60 years is also more likely to be cost-effective than for older COPD patients. Overall, results indicate that existing resource patterns of patients and variations in delivery-site practices might have a strong influence on cost-effectiveness, possibly stronger than the included health or sociodemographic sources of heterogeneity.
CONCLUSION: Future research should focus more on sources of heterogeneity found in the implementation context and the way telehealthcare is adopted (eg, by integrating formative evaluation into cost-effectiveness analyses).
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov, NCT01984840.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of the National Health Service (NHS) Direct Pilot Telehealth Program: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a pilot telehealth program applied to a wide population of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
DESIGN: Vital signs data were transmitted from the home of the patient on a daily basis using a patient monitoring system for review by community nurse to assist decisions on management.
SETTING: Community services for patients diagnosed with COPD.
PARTICIPANTS: Two Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) enrolled 321 patients diagnosed with COPD into the telehealth program. Two hundred twenty-seven (n = 227) patients having a complete baseline record of at least 88 days of continuous remote monitoring and meeting all inclusion criteria were included in the statistical analysis.
INTERVENTION: Remote monitoring.
METHODS: Resource and cost data associated with patient events (inpatient hospitalization, accident and emergency [A&E], and home visits) 12 months before, immediately before and during monitoring, equipment, start-up, and administration were collected and compared to determine cost-effectiveness of the program.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost-effectiveness of program, impact on resource usage, and patterns of change in resource usage.
RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness was determined for the two PCTs and the two periods before monitoring to provide four separate estimates. Cost-effectiveness had high variance both between the PCTs and between the comparison periods ranging from a saving of £140,800 ($176,000) to an increase of £9,600 ($12,000). The average saving was £1,023 ($1,280) per patient per year. The largest impact was on length of stay with a fall in the average length of inpatient care in PCT1 from 11.5 days in the period 12 months before monitoring to 6.5 days during monitoring, and similarly in PCT2 from 7.5 to 5.2 days.
CONCLUSION: There was a wide discrepancy in the results from the two PCTs. This places doubt on outcomes and may indicate also why the literature on cost-effectiveness remains inconclusive. The wide variance on savings and the uncertainty of monitoring cost do not allow a definitive conclusion on the cost-effectiveness as an outcome of this study. It might well be that the average saving was £1,023 ($1,280) per patient per year, but the variance is too great to allow this to be statistically significant. Each locality-based clinical service provides a service to achieve the same clinical goal, but it does so in significantly different ways. The introduction of remote monitoring has a profound effect on team learning and clinical practice and thus distorts the cost-effectiveness evaluation of the use of the technology. Cost-effectiveness studies will continue to struggle to provide a definitive answer because outcome measurements are too dependent on factors other than the technology.
Label Included: 1

Title: The effectiveness of daily SMS reminders in pharmaceutical care of older adults on improving patients' adherence to antihypertensive medication (SPPA): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite a variety of efficient and cost-effective antihypertensive medication, hypertension remains a serious health and economic burden. High consumption of cardiovascular drugs in the Slovak Republic does result neither in better hypertension control nor in significant decrease in cardiovascular mortality. At the same time, Slovakia has alarmingly low patients' adherence to medication intake. Studies have shown the efficiency of short messaging service (SMS) reminders to improve patients' adherence and health outcomes at low costs. Since SMS is popular among Slovaks, this approach may be feasible also in Slovakia. The primary objective is to assess if daily SMS reminders of antihypertensive medication intake provided by pharmacists in addition to the standard pharmaceutical care increase the proportion of adherent older hypertensive ambulatory patients.
METHODS: The SPPA trial is a pragmatic randomized parallel group (1:1) trial in 300 older hypertensive patients carried out in community pharmacies in Slovakia. Trial pharmacies will be selected from all main regions of Slovakia. Trial intervention comprises daily personalized SMS reminders of medication intake embedded into usual pharmaceutical practice. The primary outcome is a combined adherence endpoint consisting of subjective self-reported medication adherence via the eight-item Morisky Medication Adherence Scale (MMAS-8) and objective pill count rate. Secondary outcomes include: change in the MMAS-8; comparison of adherence rates using pill count; change in systolic blood pressure; and patient satisfaction. Also, direct treatment costs will be evaluated and a cost-effectiveness analysis will be carried out.
DISCUSSION: The SPPA trial engages community pharmacists and mobile health (mHealth) technologies via evidence-based pharmaceutical care to efficiently and cost-effectively addresses current main healthcare challenges: high prevalence of hypertension; overconsumption of cardiovascular medicines; low adherence to medication treatment; and resulting uncontrolled blood pressure. The results may identify new possibilities and capacities in healthcare with low additional costs and high value to patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03105687 . Registered on 07 March 2017.
Label Included: 0

Title: Collaborative Care for Psychiatric Disorders in Older Adults: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the mode of implementation, clinical outcomes, cost-effectiveness, and the factors influencing uptake and sustainability of collaborative care for psychiatric disorders in older adults.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
SETTING: Primary care, home health care, seniors' residence, medical inpatient and outpatient.
PARTICIPANTS: Studies with a mean sample age of 60 years and older.
INTERVENTION: Collaborative care for psychiatric disorders.
METHODS: PubMed, MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane databases were searched up until October 2016. Individual randomized controlled trials and cohort, case-control, and health service evaluation studies were selected, and relevant data were extracted for qualitative synthesis.
RESULTS: Of the 552 records identified, 53 records (from 29 studies) were included. Very few studies evaluated psychiatric disorders other than depression. The mode of implementation differed based on the setting, with beneficial use of telemedicine. Clinical outcomes for depression were significantly better compared with usual care across settings. In depression, there is some evidence for cost-effectiveness. There is limited evidence for improved dementia care and outcomes using collaborative care. There is a lack of evidence for benefit in disorders other than depression or in settings such as home health care and general acute inpatients. Attitudes and skill of primary care staff, availability of resources, and organizational support are some of the factors influencing uptake and implementation.
CONCLUSIONS: Collaborative care for depressive disorders is feasible and beneficial among older adults in diverse settings. There is a paucity of studies on collaborative care in conditions other than depression or in settings other than primary care, indicating the need for further evaluation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Randomized Trial of Intelligent Sensor System for Early Illness Alerts in Senior Housing.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Measure the clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of using sensor data from an environmentally embedded sensor system for early illness recognition. This sensor system has demonstrated in pilot studies to detect changes in function and in chronic diseases or acute illnesses on average 10 days to 2 weeks before usual assessment methods or self-reports of illness.
DESIGN: Prospective intervention study in 13 assisted living (AL) communities of 171 residents randomly assigned to intervention (n=86) or comparison group (n=85) receiving usual care.
METHODS: Intervention participants lived with the sensor system an average of one year.
MEASUREMENTS: Continuous data collected 24 hours/7 days a week from motion sensors to measure overall activity, an under mattress bed sensor to capture respiration, pulse, and restlessness as people sleep, and a gait sensor that continuously measures gait speed, stride length and time, and automatically assess for increasing fall risk as the person walks around the apartment. Continuously running computer algorithms are applied to the sensor data and send health alerts to staff when there are changes in sensor data patterns.
RESULTS: The randomized comparison group functionally declined more rapidly than the intervention group. Walking speed and several measures from GaitRite, velocity, step length left and right, stride length left and right, and the fall risk measure of functional ambulation profile (FAP) all had clinically significant changes. The walking speed increase (worse) and velocity decline (worse) of 0.073 m/s for comparison group exceeded 0.05 m/s, a value considered to be a minimum clinically important difference. No differences were measured in health care costs.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that sensor data with health alerts and fall alerts sent to AL nursing staff can be an effective strategy to detect and intervene in early signs of illness or functional decline.
Label Included: 0

Title: Perspectives from the Kidney Health Initiative on Advancing Technologies to Facilitate Remote Monitoring of Patient Self-Care in RRT.
Abstract: Telehealth and remote monitoring of a patient's health status has become more commonplace in the last decade and has been applied to conditions such as heart failure, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Conversely, uptake of these technologies to help engender and support home RRTs has lagged. Although studies have looked at the role of telehealth in RRT, they are small and single-centered, and both outcome and cost-effectiveness data are needed to inform future decision making. Furthermore, alignment of payer and government (federal and state) regulations with telehealth procedures is needed along with a better understanding of the viewpoints of the various stakeholders in this process (patients, caregivers, clinicians, payers, dialysis organizations, and government regulators). Despite these barriers, telehealth has great potential to increase the acceptance of home dialysis, and improve outcomes and patient satisfaction while potentially decreasing costs. The Kidney Health Initiative convened a multidisciplinary workgroup to examine the current state of telehealth use in home RRTs as well as outline potential benefits and drawbacks, impediments to implementation, and key unanswered questions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Predicting all-cause risk of 30-day hospital readmission using artificial neural networks.
Abstract: Avoidable hospital readmissions not only contribute to the high costs of healthcare in the US, but also have an impact on the quality of care for patients. Large scale adoption of Electronic Health Records (EHR) has created the opportunity to proactively identify patients with high risk of hospital readmission, and apply effective interventions to mitigate that risk. To that end, in the past, numerous machine-learning models have been employed to predict the risk of 30-day hospital readmission. However, the need for an accurate and real-time predictive model, suitable for hospital setting applications still exists. Here, using data from more than 300,000 hospital stays in California from Sutter Health's EHR system, we built and tested an artificial neural network (NN) model based on Google's TensorFlow library. Through comparison with other traditional and non-traditional models, we demonstrated that neural networks are great candidates to capture the complexity and interdependency of various data fields in EHRs. LACE, the current industry standard, showed a precision (PPV) of 0.20 in identifying high-risk patients in our database. In contrast, our NN model yielded a PPV of 0.24, which is a 20% improvement over LACE. Additionally, we discussed the predictive power of Social Determinants of Health (SDoH) data, and presented a simple cost analysis to assist hospitalists in implementing helpful and cost-effective post-discharge interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Early supported discharge services for people with acute stroke.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People with stroke conventionally receive a substantial part of their rehabilitation in hospital. Services have now been developed that offer people in hospital an early discharge with rehabilitation at home (early supported discharge: ESD).
OBJECTIVES: To establish if, in comparison with conventional care, services that offer people in hospital with stroke a policy of early discharge with rehabilitation provided in the community (ESD) can: 1) accelerate return home, 2) provide equivalent or better patient and carer outcomes, 3) be acceptable satisfactory to patients and carers, and 4) have justifiable resource implications use.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (January 2017), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2017, Issue 1) in the Cochrane Library (searched January 2017), MEDLINE in Ovid (searched January 2017), Embase in Ovid (searched January 2017), CINAHL in EBSCO (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature; 1937 to December 2016), and Web of Science (to January 2017). In an effort to identify further published, unpublished, and ongoing trials we searched six trial registries (March 2017). We also performed citation tracking of included studies, checked reference lists of relevant articles, and contacted trialists.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) recruiting stroke patients in hospital to receive either conventional care or any service intervention that has provided rehabilitation and support in a community setting with an aim of reducing the duration of hospital care.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The primary patient outcome was the composite end-point of death or long-term dependency recorded at the end of scheduled follow-up. Two review authors scrutinised trials, categorised them on their eligibility and extracted data. Where possible we sought standardised data from the primary trialists. We analysed the results for all trials and for subgroups of patients and services, in particular whether the intervention was provided by a co-ordinated multidisciplinary team (co-ordinated ESD team) or not. We assessed risk of bias for the included trials and used GRADE to assess the quality of the body of evidence.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 17 trials, recruiting 2422 participants, for which outcome data are currently available. Participants tended to be a selected elderly group of stroke survivors with moderate disability. The ESD group showed reductions in the length of hospital stay equivalent to approximately six days (mean difference (MD) -5.5; 95% confidence interval (CI) -3 to -8 days; P < 0.0001; moderate-grade evidence). The primary outcome was available for 16 trials (2359 participants). Overall, the odds ratios (OR) for the outcome of death or dependency at the end of scheduled follow-up (median 6 months; range 3 to 12) was OR 0.80 (95% CI 0.67 to 0.95, P = 0.01, moderate-grade evidence) which equates to five fewer adverse outcomes per 100 patients receiving ESD. The results for death (16 trials; 2116 participants) and death or requiring institutional care (12 trials; 1664 participants) were OR 1.04 (95% CI 0.77 to 1.40, P = 0.81, moderate-grade evidence) and OR 0.75 (95% CI 0.59 to 0.96, P = 0.02, moderate-grade evidence), respectively. Small improvements were also seen in participants' extended activities of daily living scores (standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.14, 95% CI 0.03 to 0.25, P = 0.01, low-grade evidence) and satisfaction with services (OR 1.60, 95% CI 1.08 to 2.38, P = 0.02, low-grade evidence). We saw no clear differences in participants' activities of daily living scores, patients subjective health status or mood, or the subjective health status, mood or satisfaction with services of carers. We found low-quality evidence that the risk of readmission to hospital was similar in the ESD and conventional care group (OR 1.09, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.51, P = 0.59, low-grade evidence). The evidence for the apparent benefits were weaker at one- and five-year follow-up. Estimated costs from six individual trials ranged from 23% lower to 15% greater for the ESD group in comparison to usual care.In a series of pre-planned analyses, the greatest reductions in death or dependency were seen in the trials evaluating a co-ordinated ESD team with a suggestion of poorer results in those services without a co-ordinated team (subgroup interaction at P = 0.06). Stroke patients with mild to moderate disability at baseline showed greater reductions in death or dependency than those with more severe stroke (subgroup interaction at P = 0.04).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Appropriately resourced ESD services with co-ordinated multidisciplinary team input provided for a selected group of stroke patients can reduce long-term dependency and admission to institutional care as well as reducing the length of hospital stay. Results are inconclusive for services without co-ordinated multidisciplinary team input. We observed no adverse impact on the mood or subjective health status of patients or carers, nor on readmission to hospital.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of Antidepressant Switching vs Augmentation on Remission Among Patients With Major Depressive Disorder Unresponsive to Antidepressant Treatment: The VAST-D Randomized Clinical Trial.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Less than one-third of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) achieve remission with their first antidepressant.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative effectiveness and safety of 3 common alternate treatments for MDD.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: From December 2012 to May 2015, 1522 patients at 35 US Veterans Health Administration medical centers who were diagnosed with nonpsychotic MDD, unresponsive to at least 1 antidepressant course meeting minimal standards for treatment dose and duration, participated in the study. Patients were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to 1 of 3 treatments and evaluated for up to 36 weeks.
INTERVENTIONS: Switch to a different antidepressant, bupropion (switch group, n = 511); augment current treatment with bupropion (augment-bupropion group, n = 506); or augment with an atypical antipsychotic, aripiprazole (augment-aripiprazole group, n = 505) for 12 weeks (acute treatment phase) and up to 36 weeks for longer-term follow-up (continuation phase).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was remission during the acute treatment phase (16-item Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Clinician Rated [QIDS-C16] score ≤5 at 2 consecutive visits). Secondary outcomes included response (≥50% reduction in QIDS-C16 score or improvement on the Clinical Global Impression Improvement scale), relapse, and adverse effects.
RESULTS: Among 1522 randomized patients (mean age, 54.4 years; men, 1296 [85.2%]), 1137 (74.7%) completed the acute treatment phase. Remission rates at 12 weeks were 22.3% (n = 114) for the switch group, 26.9% (n = 136)for the augment-bupropion group, and 28.9% (n = 146) for the augment-aripiprazole group. The augment-aripiprazole group exceeded the switch group in remission (relative risk [RR], 1.30 [95% CI, 1.05-1.60]; P = .02), but other remission comparisons were not significant. Response was greater for the augment-aripiprazole group (74.3%) than for either the switch group (62.4%; RR, 1.19 [95% CI, 1.09-1.29]) or the augment-bupropion group (65.6%; RR, 1.13 [95% CI, 1.04-1.23]). No significant treatment differences were observed for relapse. Anxiety was more frequent in the 2 bupropion groups (24.3% in the switch group [n = 124] vs 16.6% in the augment-aripiprazole group [n = 84]; and 22.5% in augment-bupropion group [n = 114]). Adverse effects more frequent in the augment-aripiprazole group included somnolence, akathisia, and weight gain.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among a predominantly male population with major depressive disorder unresponsive to antidepressant treatment, augmentation with aripiprazole resulted in a statistically significant but only modestly increased likelihood of remission during 12 weeks of treatment compared with switching to bupropion monotherapy. Given the small effect size and adverse effects associated with aripiprazole, further analysis including cost-effectiveness is needed to understand the net utility of this approach.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01421342.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy of cognitive behavioural therapy delivered over the Internet for depressive symptoms: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: Introduction Cognitive behavioural therapy has been shown to improve depressive symptoms in adults with mild to moderate depression. To overcome many of the barriers associated with delivering this treatment, attempts have been made to deliver cognitive behavioural therapy via the Internet. The objective of this meta-analysis is to assess whether Internet-based cognitive behavioural therapy delivered to adults with depressive symptoms leads to a reduction in these symptoms as compared to those who receive no therapy. Methods In September 2015, the Cochrane, PubMed and PsycInfo databases were searched; studies were also found through bibliography searches. Studies were included if they were randomized controlled trials published in English between 2005-2015 conducted with adults >18 years of age experiencing mild to moderate depression where study subjects received Internet-based cognitive behavioural therapy, and the control group was placed on a wait-list. The search yielded 257 articles; 14 of these were included in the meta-analysis. Results Internet delivered cognitive behavioural therapy had a medium effect on reducing depressive symptoms at the end of the study period (standardized mean difference: 0.74, confidence interval: 0.62-0.86, p < 0.001). Internet-delivered cognitive behavioural therapy also has a large sustained effect in maintaining reduction of depressive symptoms in follow-up measures done 3-6 months after the conclusion of the therapy (standardized mean difference: 0.83, confidence interval: 0.69-0.99, p < 0.001). There was no publication bias and low heterogeneity. Discussion Cognitive behavioural therapy delivered over the Internet leads to immediate and sustained reduction in depressive symptoms; thus, it may be a good treatment modality for individuals unable or unwilling to access traditional face-to-face therapy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Inferring Direct Effects of ICU Telemedicine on Cost-Effectiveness.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: A qualitative analysis of the effectiveness of telehealthcare devices (ii) barriers to uptake of telehealthcare devices.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Monitoring health and care needs through the use of telehealthcare devices has been proposed to help alleviate funding concerns in a climate of limited budgets. As well as improving cost effectiveness, such an approach could be used to help individuals live at home for longer. In practice however, these devices often go unused. A qualitative study was carried out to determine the barriers to uptake of these devices from both the perspective of the end user and from key players in the healthcare supply chain.
METHODS: A qualitative approach was used involving focus groups and interviews. Two UK-based focus groups were held with users and potential users, to assess their views on the wide array of devices available. 27 individuals were involved in the groups, all over the age of 60. Additionally 27 telephone interviews were conducted with key supply chain players to ascertain their views on the barriers to uptake of these devices. A semi-structured interview guide was used. All data were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim and analysed using a thematic approach.
RESULTS: Users were generally unaware of the wide array of devices available and when shown a selection, were often unclear as to their purpose. The interviews revealed extensive barriers to uptake due to lack of awareness, unfamiliar terminology, complex supply routes and costs, resistance from professionals to device usage and lack of expertise.
CONCLUSIONS: Public and professional awareness campaigns are required with appropriate funding mechanisms for users to gain access to devices. The numerous barriers identified require systematically addressing, so that device usage is better promoted, enabling individuals to live at home successfully for longer.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Not Available].
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and acceptability of low-intensity interventions in the management of obsessive-compulsive disorder: the Obsessive-Compulsive Treatment Efficacy randomised controlled Trial (OCTET).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The Obsessive-Compulsive Treatment Efficacy randomised controlled Trial emerged from a research recommendation in National Institute for Health and Care Excellence obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) guidelines, which specified the need to evaluate cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) treatment intensity formats.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of two low-intensity CBT interventions [supported computerised cognitive-behavioural therapy (cCBT) and guided self-help]: (1) compared with waiting list for high-intensity CBT in adults with OCD at 3 months; and (2) plus high-intensity CBT compared with waiting list plus high-intensity CBT in adults with OCD at 12 months. To determine patient and professional acceptability of low-intensity CBT interventions.
DESIGN: A three-arm, multicentre, randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Improving Access to Psychological Therapies services and primary/secondary care mental health services in 15 NHS trusts.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients aged ≥ 18 years meeting Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-Fourth Edition criteria for OCD, on a waiting list for high-intensity CBT and scoring ≥ 16 on the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (indicative of at least moderate severity OCD) and able to read English.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomised to (1) supported cCBT, (2) guided self-help or (3) a waiting list for high-intensity CBT.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was OCD symptoms using the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale - Observer Rated.
RESULTS: Patients were recruited from 14 NHS trusts between February 2011 and May 2014. Follow-up data collection was complete by May 2015. There were 475 patients randomised: supported cCBT (n = 158); guided self-help (n = 158) and waiting list for high-intensity CBT (n = 159). Two patients were excluded post randomisation (one supported cCBT and one waiting list for high-intensity CBT); therefore, data were analysed for 473 patients. In the short term, prior to accessing high-intensity CBT, guided self-help demonstrated statistically significant benefits over waiting list, but these benefits did not meet the prespecified criterion for clinical significance [adjusted mean difference -1.91, 95% confidence interval (CI) -3.27 to -0.55; p = 0.006]. Supported cCBT did not demonstrate any significant benefit (adjusted mean difference -0.71, 95% CI -2.12 to 0.70). In the longer term, access to guided self-help and supported cCBT, prior to high-intensity CBT, did not lead to differences in outcomes compared with access to high-intensity CBT alone. Access to guided self-help and supported cCBT led to significant reductions in the uptake of high-intensity CBT; this did not seem to compromise patient outcomes at 12 months. Taking a decision-making approach, which focuses on which decision has a higher probability of being cost-effective, rather than the statistical significance of the results, there was little evidence that supported cCBT and guided self-help are cost-effective at the 3-month follow-up compared with a waiting list. However, by the 12-month follow-up, data suggested a greater probability of guided self-help being cost-effective than a waiting list from the health- and social-care perspective (60%) and the societal perspective (80%), and of supported cCBT being cost-effective compared with a waiting list from both perspectives (70%). Qualitative interviews found that guided self-help was more acceptable to patients than supported cCBT. Professionals acknowledged the advantages of low intensity interventions at a population level. No adverse events occurred during the trial that were deemed to be suspected or unexpected serious events.
LIMITATIONS: A significant issue in the interpretation of the results concerns the high level of access to high-intensity CBT during the waiting list period.
CONCLUSIONS: Although low-intensity interventions are not associated with clinically significant improvements in OCD symptoms, economic analysis over 12 months suggests that low-intensity interventions are cost-effective and may have an important role in OCD care pathways. Further research to enhance the clinical effectiveness of these interventions may be warranted, alongside research on how best to incorporate them into care pathways.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN73535163.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 21, No. 37. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: A systematic review of the cost and economic outcomes of home enteral nutrition.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Studies are lacking in the health economic implications of home enteral nutrition (HEN) in home-residing and long-term care/institutionalized patients. The aims of this review were to determine the total costs, the cost-effectiveness and other economic outcomes for HEN.
DESIGN: A systematic search of randomized trials and observational studies available from January 2000 to April 2016 was performed using standard literature and electronic databases. Inclusion criteria were adults receiving HEN with economic outcomes in the long-term care or home settings. There was no restriction to the control groups used in the studies.
RESULTS: A total of 10 studies met the inclusion criteria. The majority of the studies were not specifically designed for economic evaluation. Cost per QALY was lower in residents residing in home compared to long-term care facilities, and HEN appeared to be cost-effective for those with pressure ulcers. Higher costs were incurred for patients with dementia on HEN. Lower hospitalization costs and infection rates were reported for patients who switched to commercial feeds from blenderized food. The availability of nutritional support teams may decrease overall costs but these studies were of poor study quality.
CONCLUSIONS: The lack of good quality economic evaluation studies affected the ability to conclude the overall cost-effectiveness of HEN. There is a trend for cost-saving and improved clinical outcomes in some populations. HEN is unlikely beneficial for patients with dementia. The availability of a nutrition support team may lead to cost savings and improved clinical outcomes for HEN.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness of the use of a digital activity coaching system in addition to a two-week home-based exercise program in patients after total knee arthroplasty: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is consistent evidence that supervised programs are not superior to home-based programs after total knee arthroplasty (TKA), especially in patients without complications. Home-based exercise programs are effective, but we hypothesize that their effectiveness can be improved by increasing the adherence to physical therapy advice to reach an adequate exercise level during the program and thereafter. Our hypothesis is that an activity coaching system (accelerometer-based activity sensor), alongside a home-based exercise program, will increase adherence to exercises and the activity level, thereby improving physical functioning and recovery. The objective of this study is to determine the effectiveness of an activity coaching system in addition to a home-based exercise program after a TKA compared to only the home-based exercise program with physical functioning as outcome.
METHODS: This study is a single-blind randomized controlled trial. Both the intervention (n = 55) and the control group (n = 55) receive a two-week home-based exercise program, and the intervention group receives an additional activity coaching system. This is a hand-held electronic device together with an app on a smartphone providing information and advice on exercise behavior during the day. The primary outcome is physical functioning, measured with the Timed Up and Go test (TUG) after two weeks, six weeks and three months. Secondary outcomes are 1) adherence to the activity level (activity diary); 2) physical functioning, measured with the 2-Minute Walk Test (2MWT) and the Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; 3) quality of life (SF-36); 4) healthcare use up to one year postoperatively and 5) cost-effectiveness. Data are collected preoperatively, three days, two and six weeks, three months and one year postoperatively.
DISCUSSION: The strengths of the study are the use of both performance-based tests and self-reported questionnaires and the personalized tailored program after TKA given by specialized physical therapists. Its weakness is the lack of blinding of the participants to treatment allocation. Outcomes are generalizable to uncomplicated patients as defined in the inclusion criteria.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial is registered in the Dutch Trial Register ( www.trialregister.nl , NTR 5109) (March 22, 2015).
Label Included: 0

Title: Hearing health access in developing countries.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The developing world carries a disproportionate burden of hearing loss. Individuals with hearing loss in austere settings worldwide are also potentially impacted by their impairment to a greater extent owing to underdeveloped or nonexistent hearing health infrastructure. The purpose of this review is to examine the state of the literature on hearing health access in developing countries and identify areas for improvement.
RECENT FINDINGS: Over the last 10 years progress has been made in some areas, whereas other aspects of hearing health in developing countries have changed very little. There has been expansion of efforts to train primary care and local hearing healthcare providers to recognize and appropriately treat preventable causes of hearing loss in the developing world. Applications of telehealth to connect providers and patients in rural locales have grown. Adaptions of newborn hearing screening programs that better fit local resources and customs have been reported. There has been a considerable increase in interest, including cost-benefit analyses, with regard to the use of cochlear implants in the developing world.
SUMMARY: In spite of progress, the developing world still shoulders a disproportionate amount of the world's hearing loss, in particular chronic ear disease, and there is a paucity of well trained local hearing healthcare professionals to deal with the challenge. The role of international humanitarian efforts, telemedicine, and education is highlighted.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects of an interactive mHealth innovation for early detection of patient-reported symptom distress with focus on participatory care: protocol for a study based on prospective, randomised, controlled trials in patients with prostate and breast cancer.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cancer patients are predominantly treated as out-patients and as they often experience difficult symptoms and side effects it is important to facilitate and improve patient-clinician communication to support symptom management and self-care. Although the number of projects within supportive cancer care evaluating mobile health is increasing, few evidence-based interventions are described in the literature and thus there is a need for good quality clinical studies with a randomised design and sufficient power to guide future implementations. An interactive information and communications technology platform, including a smartphone/computer tablet app for reporting symptoms during cancer treatment was created in collaboration with a company specialising in health care management. The aim of this paper is to evaluate the effects of using the platform for patients with breast cancer during neo adjuvant chemotherapy treatment and patients with locally advanced prostate cancer during curative radiotherapy treatment. The main hypothesis is that the use of the platform will improve clinical management, reduce costs, and promote safe and participatory care.
METHOD: The study is a prospective, randomised, controlled trial for each patient group and it is based on repeated measurements. Patients are consecutively included and randomised. The intervention groups report symptoms via the app daily, during treatment and up to three weeks after end of treatment, as a complement to standard care. Patients in the control groups receive standard care alone. Outcomes targeted are symptom burden, quality of life, health literacy (capacity to understand and communicate health needs and promote healthy behaviours), disease progress and health care costs. Data will be collected before and after treatment by questionnaires, registers, medical records and biomarkers. Lastly, participants will be interviewed about participatory and meaningful care.
DISCUSSION: Results will generate knowledge to enhance understanding about how to develop person-centred care using mobile technology. Supporting patients' involvement in their care to identify problems early, promotes more timely initiation of necessary treatment. This can benefit patients treated outside the hospital setting in regard to maintaining their safety.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: June 12 2015 NCT02477137 (Prostate cancer) and June 12 2015 NCT02479607 (Breast cancer).
Label Included: 0

Title: A systematic review of the cost and cost-effectiveness of electronic discharge communications.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The transition between acute care and community care can be a vulnerable period in a patients' treatment due to the potential for postdischarge adverse events. The vulnerability of this period has been attributed to factors related to the miscommunication between hospital-based and community-based physicians. Electronic discharge communication has been proposed as one solution to bridge this communication gap. Prior to widespread implementation of these tools, the costs and benefits should be considered.
OBJECTIVE: To establish the cost and cost-effectiveness of electronic discharge communications compared with traditional discharge systems for individuals who have completed care with one provider and are transitioning care to a new provider.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of the published literature, using best practices, to identify economic evaluations/cost analyses of electronic discharge communication tools. Inclusion criteria were: (1) economic analysis and (2) electronic discharge communication tool as the intervention. Quality of each article was assessed, and data were summarised using a component-based analysis.
RESULTS: One thousand unique abstracts were identified, and 57 full-text articles were assessed for eligibility. Four studies met final inclusion criteria. These studies varied in their primary objectives, methodology, costs reported and outcomes. All of the studies were of low to good quality. Three of the studies reported a cost-effectiveness measure ranging from an incremental daily cost of decreasing average discharge note completion by 1 day of $0.331 (2003 Canadian), a cost per page per discharge letter of €9.51 and a dynamic net present value of €31.1 million for a 5-year implementation of the intervention. None of the identified studies considered clinically meaningful patient or quality outcomes.
DISCUSSION: Economic analyses of electronic discharge communications are scarcely reported, and with inconsistent methodology and outcomes. Further studies are needed to understand the cost-effectiveness and value for patient care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Telemedicine-Based Collaborative Care for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The study examined the cost-effectiveness of a telemedicine-based collaborative care model designed to increase rural veterans' engagement in evidence-based treatments for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
METHODS: The Telemedicine Outreach for PTSD (TOP) study used a pragmatic randomized effectiveness trial to examine effects of PTSD care teams located at Veterans Affairs medical centers and supporting primary care providers in satellite clinics. Teams included a nurse care manager, pharmacist, psychologist, and psychiatrist. Effectiveness was estimated with quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) derived from the Short Form Health Survey for Veterans and Quality of Well-Being (QWB) scale. Intervention and health care costs were collected to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
RESULTS: The sample (N=265) included mostly rural, unemployed, middle-aged men with a military service-connected disability for PTSD randomly assigned to TOP or usual care. Only minor improvements in QWB QALYs were found. The TOP intervention was relatively expensive, with costs totaling $2,029 per patient per year. Intervention costs were not offset by reductions in health care utilization costs, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $185,565 per QALY (interquartile range $57,675 to $395,743).
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the upfront training costs and the resource-intensive nature of this intervention, associated expenses were high. Although PTSD-specific effectiveness measures were significantly improved, these changes did not translate to QALYs in the main analysis. However, analyses focusing on patient subgroups with comorbid mental disorders indicated greater QALY improvement for TOP at lower cost.
Label Included: 1

Title: Home infusion: Safe, clinically effective, patient preferred, and cost saving.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: As the U.S. healthcare payment system shifts from volume to value, identifying care approaches that improve outcomes while lowering costs are essential. We sought to understand the utility of home infusion versus medical-setting infusion as a mechanism to affect the three-part aim: better care, better health outcomes, and lower costs.
STUDY DESIGN: Systematic review.
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Science Citation Index for articles related to the safety, clinical effectiveness, quality of life and satisfaction, and/or costs of home infusion as compared with infusion in an outpatient medical facility or hospital.
RESULTS: Of 253 potentially relevant articles, 13 met all inclusion criteria. Study design, disease state, and outcomes varied considerably. As compared to medical setting infusion patients, home infusion patients were no more likely to experience adverse drug events or side effects (all p>0.05). Clinical outcomes were as good or better, e.g., for patients with hemophilia, a 40% (0.50-0.70) reduced likelihood of hospitalization for bleeding complications. Patients overwhelmingly preferred home infusion, reporting significantly better physical and mental well being and less disruption of family and personal responsibilities. Home infusion costs were significantly lower than medical setting infusion costs, with savings between $1928 and $2974 per treatment course.
CONCLUSIONS: Home infusion care can provide safe, clinically effective care improve patients' quality of life and reduce healthcare costs. As the overhaul of the healthcare payment system gains momentum, the home infusion care delivery model offers strong promise as one in a set of approaches that can improve care and lower costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: PATHway I: design and rationale for the investigation of the feasibility, clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a technology-enabled cardiac rehabilitation platform.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation (CR) independently alters the clinical course of cardiovascular diseases resulting in a significant reduction in all-cause and cardiac mortality. However, only 15%-30% of all eligible patients participate in a phase 2 ambulatory programme. The uptake rate of community-based programmes following phase 2 CR and adherence to long-term exercise is extremely poor. Newer care models, involving telerehabilitation programmes that are delivered remotely, show considerable promise for increasing adherence. In this view, the PATHway (Physical Activity Towards Health) platform was developed and now needs to be evaluated in terms of its feasibility and clinical efficacy.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: In a multicentre randomised controlled pilot trial, 120 participants (m/f, age 40-80 years) completing a phase 2 ambulatory CR programme will be randomised on a 1:1 basis to PATHway or usual care. PATHway involves a comprehensive, internet-enabled, sensor-based home CR platform and provides individualised heart rate monitored exercise programmes (exerclasses and exergames) as the basis on which to provide a personalised lifestyle intervention programme. The control group will receive usual care. Study outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 3 months and 6 months after completion of phase 2 of the CR programme. The primary outcome is the change in active energy expenditure. Secondary outcomes include cardiopulmonary endurance capacity, muscle strength, body composition, cardiovascular risk factors, peripheral endothelial vascular function, patient satisfaction, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), well-being, mediators of behaviour change and safety. HRQoL and healthcare costs will be taken into account in cost-effectiveness evaluation.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. This protocol has been approved by the director and clinical director of the PATHway study and by the ethical committee of each participating site. Results will be disseminated via peer-reviewed scientific journals and presentations at congresses and events.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02717806. This trial is currently in the pre-results stage.
Label Included: 0

Title: Developing and Evaluating Digital Interventions to Promote Behavior Change in Health and Health Care: Recommendations Resulting From an International Workshop.
Abstract: Devices and programs using digital technology to foster or support behavior change (digital interventions) are increasingly ubiquitous, being adopted for use in patient diagnosis and treatment, self-management of chronic diseases, and in primary prevention. They have been heralded as potentially revolutionizing the ways in which individuals can monitor and improve their health behaviors and health care by improving outcomes, reducing costs, and improving the patient experience. However, we are still mainly in the age of promise rather than delivery. Developing and evaluating these digital interventions presents new challenges and new versions of old challenges that require use of improved and perhaps entirely new methods for research and evaluation. This article discusses these challenges and provides recommendations aimed at accelerating the rate of progress in digital behavior intervention research and practice. Areas addressed include intervention development in a rapidly changing technological landscape, promoting user engagement, advancing the underpinning science and theory, evaluating effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, and addressing issues of regulatory, ethical, and information governance. This article is the result of a two-day international workshop on how to create, evaluate, and implement effective digital interventions in relation to health behaviors. It was held in London in September 2015 and was supported by the United Kingdom's Medical Research Council (MRC), the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), the Methodology Research Programme (PI Susan Michie), and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation of the United States (PI Kevin Patrick). Important recommendations to manage the rapid pace of change include considering using emerging techniques from data science, machine learning, and Bayesian approaches and learning from other disciplines including computer science and engineering. With regard to assessing and promoting engagement, a key conclusion was that sustained engagement is not always required and that for each intervention it is useful to establish what constitutes "effective engagement," that is, sufficient engagement to achieve the intended outcomes. The potential of digital interventions for testing and advancing theories of behavior change by generating ecologically valid, real-time objective data was recognized. Evaluations should include all phases of the development cycle, designed for generalizability, and consider new experimental designs to make the best use of rich data streams. Future health economics analyses need to recognize and model the complex and potentially far-reaching costs and benefits of digital interventions. In terms of governance, developers of digital behavior interventions should comply with existing regulatory frameworks, but with consideration for emerging standards around information governance, ethics, and interoperability.
Label Included: 0

Title: Selected Use of Telemedicine in Intensive Care Units Based on Severity of Illness Improves Cost-Effectiveness.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine in the intensive care unit (tele-ICU) is expected to address geographic health disparities through more efficient resource allocation. Our previous economic evaluation demonstrated tele-ICU to be cost-effective in most cases and cost saving in some cases, compared to conventional intensive care unit (ICU) care without adequate intensivist coverage.
INTRODUCTION: This study's objective is to examine how to optimize the cost-effectiveness of tele-ICU use by selecting highest risk (i.e., both highest mortality and highest cost) subpopulations. We also explore potential cost savings.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted simulation analyses among a hypothetical adult ICU patient cohort defined by the literature, distinguishing four types of hospitals: urban tertiary (primary analysis), urban community, rural tertiary, and rural community. The selected tele-ICU use was assumed to affect per-patient ICU cost and hospital mortality among highest risk subpopulations (10-100% of all ICU patients), defined by an established illness-severity measure.
RESULTS: We found a U-shaped relationship between the economic efficiency and selected tele-ICU use among all 4 hospital types. Optimal cost-effectiveness was achieved when tele-ICU was applied to the 30-40% highest risk patients among all ICU patients (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio = $25,392 [2014 U.S. dollars] per extending a quality-adjusted life year) in urban tertiary hospitals (primary analysis). Our break-even analyses indicated that cost saving seems more feasible when reducing ICU medical care cost, rather than lowering the cost to operate telemedicine alone.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: A selected use of tele-ICU based on severity of illness is likely to improve tele-ICU cost-effectiveness. To achieve cost saving, tele-ICU must reduce more than just telemedicine-related cost.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mixture models for undiagnosed prevalent disease and interval-censored incident disease: applications to a cohort assembled from electronic health records.
Abstract: For cost-effectiveness and efficiency, many large-scale general-purpose cohort studies are being assembled within large health-care providers who use electronic health records. Two key features of such data are that incident disease is interval-censored between irregular visits and there can be pre-existing (prevalent) disease. Because prevalent disease is not always immediately diagnosed, some disease diagnosed at later visits are actually undiagnosed prevalent disease. We consider prevalent disease as a point mass at time zero for clinical applications where there is no interest in time of prevalent disease onset. We demonstrate that the naive Kaplan-Meier cumulative risk estimator underestimates risks at early time points and overestimates later risks. We propose a general family of mixture models for undiagnosed prevalent disease and interval-censored incident disease that we call prevalence-incidence models. Parameters for parametric prevalence-incidence models, such as the logistic regression and Weibull survival (logistic-Weibull) model, are estimated by direct likelihood maximization or by EM algorithm. Non-parametric methods are proposed to calculate cumulative risks for cases without covariates. We compare naive Kaplan-Meier, logistic-Weibull, and non-parametric estimates of cumulative risk in the cervical cancer screening program at Kaiser Permanente Northern California. Kaplan-Meier provided poor estimates while the logistic-Weibull model was a close fit to the non-parametric. Our findings support our use of logistic-Weibull models to develop the risk estimates that underlie current US risk-based cervical cancer screening guidelines. Published 2017. This article has been contributed to by US Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Label Included: 0

Title: Satisfaction Survey on Information Technology-Based Glucose Monitoring System Targeting Diabetes Mellitus in Private Local Clinics in Korea.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Private local clinics in Korea have little experience with information technology (IT)-based glucose monitoring (ITGM). Our aim is to examine user satisfaction and the possibility of using ITGM service practically.
METHODS: Patients sent their blood glucose levels to physicians in local clinics. The physicians reviewed the blood glucose values online and provided personal consultations through text messaging or phone calls. Thereafter, a satisfaction survey on the ITGM service, the modified Morisky scale, and patient assessment of chronic illness care were administered.
RESULTS: One hundred and seventy patients from seven private local clinics used the ITGM. Overall satisfaction, including that about the ITGM service, the device, and its usefulness, was rated higher than "mostly satisfied" (score 4.2±0.8 out of 5.0) and even higher among the elderly. Satisfaction was positively associated with age, especially in those older than 60 years. The main reason for intent for future use of the service was the time/place flexibility. Highly motivated patients tended to answer positively regarding information satisfaction (P=0.0377).
CONCLUSION: Our study is the first to investigate ITGM satisfaction in private local clinics. The feasibility of users utilizing ITGM should be clarified, and future clinical research on the service's clinical effects and cost-benefit analysis is needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of antibiotics for COPD management: observational analysis using CPRD data.
Abstract: It is often difficult to determine the cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations, and antibiotics are frequently prescribed. This study conducted an observational cost-effectiveness analysis of prescribing antibiotics for exacerbations of COPD based on routinely collected data from patient electronic health records. A cohort of 45 375 patients aged 40 years or more who attended their general practice for a COPD exacerbation during 2000-2013 was identified from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink. Two groups were formed ("immediate antibiotics" or "no antibiotics") based on whether antibiotics were prescribed during the index general practice (GP) consultation, with data analysed according to subsequent healthcare resource use. A cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken from the perspective of the UK National Health Service, using a time horizon of 4 weeks in the base case. The use of antibiotics for COPD exacerbations resulted in cost savings and an improvement in all outcomes analysed; i.e. GP visits, hospitalisations, community respiratory team referrals, all referrals, infections and subsequent antibiotics prescriptions were lower for the antibiotics group. Hence, the use of antibiotics was dominant over no antibiotics. The economic analysis suggests that use of antibiotics for COPD exacerbations is a cost-effective alternative to not prescribing antibiotics for patients who present to their GP, and remains cost-effective when longer time horizons of 3 months and 12 months are considered. It would be useful for a definitive trial to be undertaken in this area to determine the cost-effectiveness of antibiotics for COPD exacerbations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telementoring and Telesurgery for Minimally Invasive Procedures.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Tremendous interest and need lie at the intersection of telemedicine and minimally invasive surgery. Robotics provides an ideal environment for surgical telementoring and telesurgery given its endoscopic optics and mechanized instrument movement. We review the present status, current challenges and future promise of telemedicine in endoscopic and minimally invasive surgery with a focus on urological applications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two paired investigators screened PubMed®, Scopus® and Web of Science® databases for all full text English language articles published between 1995 and 2016 using the key words "telemedicine," "minimally invasive surgical procedure," "robotic surgical procedure," "education" and "distance." We categorized and included studies of level of interaction between proctors and trainees. Research design, special equipment, telecommunication network bandwidth and research outcomes of each study were ascertained and analyzed.
RESULTS: Of 65 identified reports 38 peer-reviewed studies qualified for inclusion. Series were categorized into 4 advancing levels, ie verbal guidance, guidance with telestration, guidance with tele-assist and telesurgery. More advanced levels of surgical telementoring provide more effective and experiential teaching but are associated with increased telecommunication network bandwidth requirements and expenses. Concerns regarding patient safety and legal, financial, economic and ethical issues remain to be reconciled.
CONCLUSIONS: Telementoring and telesurgery in minimally invasive surgery are becoming more practical and cost effective in facilitating teaching of advanced surgical skills worldwide and delivery of surgical care to underserved areas, yet many challenges remain. Maturity of these modalities depends on financial incentives, favorable legislation and collaboration with cybersecurity experts to ensure safety and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Berlin prehospital or usual delivery of acute stroke care - Study protocol.
Abstract: Rationale Prehospital stroke care in specialized ambulances increases thrombolysis rates, reduces alarm-to-treatment times, and improves the prehospital triage. Preliminary analyses suggest cost-effectiveness. However, scientific proof of better functional outcome compared to usual care is still lacking. Aim To prove better functional outcomes after deployment of the Stroke Emergency Mobile compared to regular ambulances. Sample size estimates A sample size of 686 patients will be required in each arm (Stroke Emergency Mobile group vs. regular care) to detect a difference regarding the primary outcome with 80% power at a two-sided significance level of 0.05. Methods and design This is a pragmatic, prospective study with blinded outcome assessment. Primary outcome will be functional status as defined by modified Rankin Scale score three months after the incident event. We will include cerebral ischemia patients within a predefined catchment area in Berlin, Germany. The study population consists of patients who might be candidates for acute recanalizing treatments, with onset-to-alarm time ≤4 h, symptoms not resolved at time of ambulance arrival, and able to walk without assistance prior to the qualifying incident. About 45% of Stroke Emergency Mobile dispatches are expected to be handled by regular ambulances, since Stroke Emergency Mobile will be already in operation creating the control group. Primary outcome Functional outcome after three months measured by the modified Rankin Scale over the entire range. Discussion The results will inform decision makers on the effectiveness of Stroke Emergency Mobile.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Review of the Theoretical Basis, Effects, and Cost Effectiveness of Online Smoking Cessation Interventions in the Netherlands: A Mixed-Methods Approach.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Tobacco smoking is a worldwide public health problem. In 2015, 26.3% of the Dutch population aged 18 years and older smoked, 74.4% of them daily. More and more people have access to the Internet worldwide; approximately 94% of the Dutch population have online access. Internet-based smoking cessation interventions (online cessation interventions) provide an opportunity to tackle the scourge of tobacco.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this paper was to provide an overview of online cessation interventions in the Netherlands, while exploring their effectivity, cost effectiveness, and theoretical basis.
METHODS: A mixed-methods approach was used to identify Dutch online cessation interventions, using (1) a scientific literature search, (2) a grey literature search, and (3) expert input. For the scientific literature, the Cochrane review was used and updated by two independent researchers (n=651 identified studies), screening titles, abstracts, and then full-text studies between 2013 and 2016 (CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE). For the grey literature, the researchers conducted a Google search (n=100 websites), screening for titles and first pages. Including expert input, this resulted in six interventions identified in the scientific literature and 39 interventions via the grey literature. Extracted data included effectiveness, cost effectiveness, theoretical factors, and behavior change techniques used.
RESULTS: Overall, many interventions (45 identified) were offered. Of the 45 that we identified, only six that were included in trials provided data on effectiveness. Four of these were shown to be effective and cost effective. In the scientific literature, 83% (5/6) of these interventions included changing attitudes, providing social support, increasing self-efficacy, motivating smokers to make concrete action plans to prepare their attempts to quit and to cope with challenges, supporting identity change and advising on changing routines, coping, and medication use. In all, 50% (3/6) of the interventions included a reward for abstinence. Interventions identified in the grey literature were less consistent, with inclusion of each theoretical factor ranging from 31% to 67% and of each behavior change technique ranging from 28% to 54%.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the Internet may provide the opportunity to offer various smoking cessation programs, the user is left bewildered as far as efficacy is concerned, as most of these data are not available nor offered to the smokers. Clear regulations about the effectiveness of these interventions need to be devised to avoid disappointment and failed quitting attempts. Thus, there is a need for policy regulations to regulate the proliferation of these interventions and to foster their quality in the Netherlands.
Label Included: 0

Title: Interactive home telehealth and burns: A pilot study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to review our experience incorporating Interactive Home Telehealth (IHT) visits into follow-up burn care.
METHODS: A retrospective review of all burn patients participating in IHT encounters over the course of 15 months was performed. Connections were established through secure video conferencing and call-routing software. Patients connected with a personal computer or tablet and providers connected with a desktop computer with a high-definition web camera. In some cases, high-definition digital images were emailed to the provider prior to the virtual consultation. For each patient, the following was collected: (1) patient and injury demographics (diagnosis, prognosis, and clinical management), (2) total number of encounters, (3) service for each encounter (burn, psychiatry, and rehabilitation), (4) length of visit, including travel distance and time saved and, (5) complications, including re-admissions and connectivity issues.
RESULTS: 52 virtual encounters were performed with 31 patients during the first year of the pilot project from March 2015 to June 2016. Mean age of the participant was 44 years (range 18-83 years). Mean total burn surface area of the participant was 12% (range 1-80%). Average roundtrip travel distance saved was 188 miles (range 4-822 miles). Average round trip travel time saved was 201min (range 20-564min). There were no unplanned re-admissions and no complications. Five connectivity issues were reported, none of which prevented completion of the visit.
CONCLUSIONS: Interactive Home Telehealth is a safe and feasible modality for delivering follow-up care to burn patients. Burn care providers benefit from the potential to improve outpatient clinic utilization. Patients benefit from improved access to multiple members of their specialized burn care team, as well as cost-reductions for patient travel expenses. Future studies are needed to ensure patient and provider satisfaction and to further validate the significance, cost-effectiveness and safety.
Label Included: 0

Title: Conventional Polysomnography Is Not Necessary for the Management of Most Patients with Suspected Obstructive Sleep Apnea. Noninferiority, Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: RATIONALE: Home respiratory polygraphy may be a simpler alternative to in-laboratory polysomnography for the management of more symptomatic patients with obstructive sleep apnea, but its effectiveness has not been evaluated across a broad clinical spectrum.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the long-term effectiveness (6 mo) of home respiratory polygraphy and polysomnography management protocols in patients with intermediate-to-high sleep apnea suspicion (most patients requiring a sleep study).
METHODS: A multicentric, noninferiority, randomized controlled trial with two open parallel arms and a cost-effectiveness analysis was performed in 12 tertiary hospitals in Spain. Sequentially screened patients with sleep apnea suspicion were randomized to respiratory polygraphy or polysomnography protocols. Moreover, both arms received standardized therapeutic decision-making, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) treatment or a healthy habit assessment, auto-CPAP titration (for CPAP indication), health-related quality-of-life questionnaires, 24-hour blood pressure monitoring, and polysomnography at the end of follow-up. The main outcome was the Epworth Sleepiness Scale measurement. The noninferiority criterion was -2 points on the Epworth scale.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In total, 430 patients were randomized. The respiratory polygraphy protocol was noninferior to the polysomnography protocol based on the Epworth scale. Quality of life, blood pressure, and polysomnography were similar between protocols. Respiratory polygraphy was the most cost-effective protocol, with a lower per-patient cost of 416.7€.
CONCLUSIONS: Home respiratory polygraphy management is similarly effective to polysomnography, with a substantially lower cost. Therefore, polysomnography is not necessary for most patients with suspected sleep apnea. This finding could change established clinical practice, with a clear economic benefit. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 01752556).
Label Included: 0

Title: [Not Available].
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: ICU Telemedicine: Financial Analyses of a Complex Intervention.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Telephone nursing in Sweden: A narrative literature review.
Abstract: Telephone nursing services are expanding globally. Swedish Healthcare Direct is the largest healthcare provider in Sweden. This paper provides a comprehensive understanding of telephone nursing, as reflected by research on Swedish national telephone nursing, and discusses the findings in relation to international literature. A descriptive, mixed-studies literature review was conducted. Twenty-four articles from January 2003 to April 2015 were identified from PubMed, Scopus, and CINAHL, and included. The issues explored in this study are how telephone nursing is perceived by callers, telephone nurses, and managers, and what characterizes such calls. Callers value reassurance, support, respect and satisfaction and involvement in decisions can increase their adherence. The telephone nurses' perspective focused on problems and ethical dilemmas, communication, the decision support tool, and working tasks. The managers' perspective focused on nursing work goals and malpractice claims. Concerning call characteristics, authentic calls, incident reports, and threats to patient safety were considered. Telephone nursing seems safe, but gender can play a role in calls. Future research on caller access, equity, and efficiency, healthcare cost-effectiveness, distribution, and patient safety is needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Public health impact of a remote diagnosis system implemented in regional and district hospitals in Paraguay].
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Determine the viability of a remote diagnosis system implemented to provide health care to remote and scattered populations in Paraguay.
METHODS: The study was conducted in all regional and general hospitals in Paraguay, and in the main district hospitals in the country's 18 health regions. Clinical data, tomographic images, sonography, and electrocardiograms (ECGs) of patients who needed a diagnosis by a specialized physician were entered into the system. This information was sent to specialists in diagnostic imaging and in cardiology for remote diagnosis and the report was then forwarded to the hospitals connected to the system. The cost-benefit and impact of the remote diagnosis tool was analyzed from the perspective of the National Health System.
RESULTS: Between January 2014 and May 2015, a total of 34 096 remote diagnoses were made in 25 hospitals in the Ministry of Health's telemedicine system. The average unit cost of remote diagnosis was US$2.6 per ECG, tomography, and sonography, while the unit cost of "face-to-face" diagnosis was US$11.8 per ECG, US$68.6 per tomography, and US$21.5 per sonography. As a result of remote diagnosis, unit costs were 4.5 times lower for ECGs; 26.4 times lower for tomography, and 8.3 times lower for sonography. In monetary terms, implementation of the remote diagnosis system during the 16 months of the study led to average savings of US$2 420 037.
CONCLUSION: Paraguay has a remote diagnosis system for electrocardiography, tomography, and sonography, using low-cost information and communications technologies (ICTs) based on free software that is scalable to other types of remote diagnostic studies of interest for public health. Implementation of remote diagnosis helped to strengthen the integrated network of health services and programs, enabling professionals to optimize their time and productivity, while improving quality, increasing access and equity, and reducing costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Benefits of stroke treatment delivered using a mobile stroke unit trial.
Abstract: Rationale Mobile stroke units speed treatment for acute ischemic stroke, thereby possibly improving outcomes. Aim To compare mobile stroke unit and standard management clinical outcomes, healthcare utilization, and cost-effectiveness in tissue plasminogen activator-eligible acute ischemic stroke patients calling 911. Sample size 693. Eighty percent power with 0.05 type I error rate to detect a difference of 0.09 in mean utility-weighted modified Rankin scale between groups. Design Phase III, multicenter, prospective cluster-randomized (mobile stroke unit versus standard management weeks) comparative effectiveness study in tissue plasminogen activator-eligible patients. Outcomes Primary: Ninety-day mean utility-weighted modified Rankin scale. Coprimary: cost-effectiveness based on EQ5D quality of life and one year poststroke costs. Analysis Two-sample t-test and linear regression adjusting for covariates; incremental cost-effectiveness ratio and net benefit regression. Results As of March 2017, 288 tissue plasminogen activator-eligible patients have been enrolled (173 in the mobile stroke unit arm and 115 in the standard management arm). Two new centers start in early 2017 with target end of recruitment September 2019. Conclusion This is the first randomized study to test for disability, healthcare utilization, and cost-effectiveness of a mobile stroke unit. The progress of the study suggests that it is feasible. Management of tissue plasminogen activator eligible acute ischemic stroke patients by a mobile stroke unit could potentially result in less disability and healthcare utilization, and be cost effective. Mobile stroke units are very costly. This trial may determine if the fixed cost can be justified by a reduction in disability and healthcare utilization. Clinical Trial Registration NCT02190500.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility and cost-effectiveness of at home azacitidine administration.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Making electronic health records support quality management: A narrative review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Since the 1990s many hospitals in the OECD countries have introduced electronic health record (EHR) systems. A number of studies have examined the factors impinging on EHR implementation. Others have studied the clinical efficacy of EHR. However, only few studies have explored the (intermediary) factors that make EHR systems conducive to quality management (QM).
OBJECTIVE: Undertake a narrative review of existing studies in order to identify and discuss the factors conducive to making EHR support three dimensions of QM: clinical outcomes, managerial monitoring and cost-effectiveness.
METHOD: A narrative review of Web of Science, Cochrane, EBSCO, ProQuest, Scopus and three Nordic research databases.
LIMITATION: most studies do not specify the type of EHR examined.
RESULTS: 39 studies were identified for analysis. 10 factors were found to be conducive to make EHR support QM. However, the contribution of EHR to the three specific dimensions of QM varied substantially. Most studies (29) included clinical outcomes. However, only half of these reported EHR to have a positive impact. Almost all the studies (36) dealt with the ability of EHR to enhance managerial monitoring of clinical activities, the far majority of which showed a positive relationship. Finally, only five dealt with cost-effectiveness of which two found positive effects.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The findings resonates well with previous reviews, though two factors making EHR support QM seem new, namely: political goals and strategies, and integration of guidelines for clinical conduct. Lacking EHR type specification and diversity in study method imply that there is a strong need for further research on the factors that may make EHR may support QM.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparative cost-benefit analysis of tele-homecare for community-dwelling elderly in Japan: Non-Government versus Government Supported Funding Models.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Tele-homecare is gaining prominence as a viable care alternative, as evidenced by the increase in financial support from international governments to fund initiatives in their respective countries. The primary reason for the funding is to support efforts to reduce lags and increase capacity in access to care as well as to promote preventive measures that can avert costly emergent issues from arising. These efforts are especially important to super-aged and aging societies such as in Japan, many European countries, and the United States (US). However, to date and to our knowledge, a direct comparison of non-government vs. government-supported funding models for tele-homecare is particularly lacking in Japan. The aim of this study is to compare these operational models (i.e., non-government vs. government-supported funding) from a cost-benefit perspective. This simulation study applies to a Japanese hypothetical cohort with implications for other super-aged and aging societies abroad.
METHODS: We performed a cost-benefit analysis (CBA) on two operational models for enabling tele-homecare for elderly community-dwelling cohorts based on a decision tree model, which we created with parameters from published literature. The two models examined are (a) Model 1-non-government-supported funding that includes monthly fixed charges paid by users for a portion of the operating costs, and (b) Model 2-government-supported funding that includes startup and installation costs only (i.e., no operating costs) and no monthly user charges. We performed base case cost-benefit analysis and probabilistic cost-benefit analysis with a Monte Carlo simulation. We calculated net benefit and benefit-to-cost ratios (BCRs) from the societal perspective with a five-year time horizon applying a 3% discount rate for both cost and benefit values. The cost of tele-homecare included (a) the startup system expense, averaged over a five-year depreciation period, and (b) operation expenses (i.e., labor and non-labor) per user per year. The benefit of tele-homecare was measured by annual willingness to pay (WTP) for tele-homecare by a user and medical expenditures avoided. Both costs and benefits were inflated using the relevant Japanese consumer price index (CPI) and converted into 2015 US dollars with purchasing power parity (PPP) adjusted.
RESULTS: Base case net benefits of Model 1 and Model 2 were $417.00 and $97.30, respectively. Base case BCR of Model 1 tele-homecare was 1.63, while Model 2 was 1.03. The probabilistic analysis estimated mean (95%CI) for BCRs of Model 1 and Model 2 was 1.84 (1.89, 1.88) and 1.46 (1.43, 1.49), respectively. Sensitivity analysis showed robustness of Model 1 in 7 parameters but Model 2 was sensitive in all key parameters such as initial system cost, device cost, number of users, and medical expenditure saved. Break-even analysis showed that the system cost of Model 2 had to be under $187,500.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results for each model collectively showed that tele-homecare in Japan is cost-saving to some extent. However, the government-funded model (i.e., Model 2), which typically requires use of all startup funding to be spent within the first year on system costs, was inferior to the monthly fee model (i.e., Model 1) that did not use the government funding for installation or continued operations, but rather incorporated a monthly fee from users to support the receipt of services via tele-homecare. While the benefits of Model 1 outweighed the benefits of Model 2, the government-subsidized method employed in Model 2 could be more beneficial in general if some explicit prequalifying estimated metrics are instituted prior to funding. Thus, governments need to require applicants requesting funding to note, at a minimum, (a) estimated costs, (b) the expected number of tele-homecare users, and expected benefits such as (c) WTP by the user, or (d) medical expenditure saved by tele-homecare as a means of financing some of the operational costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Bringing the Family in through the Back Door: the Stealthy Expansion of Family Care in Asian and European Long-Term Care Policy.
Abstract: In the era of global ageing, amid political concerns about increasing care needs and long-term sustainability of current care regimes, most high-income economies are seeking to minimise the use of institutional care and to expand formal home care for their older populations. In long-term care reforms, concerns about public funding, formal providers and the paid care workforce are foremost. However, an integral yet hidden part of all these reforms is the stealthily growing role of family carers. This article aims to identify and spell out how developments in formal home care bring about different modes of increasing, encouraging and necessitating family care inputs, across welfare states. Using secondary sources, three different modes were identified, and the article outlines the logic of each mechanism, drawing on illustrative examples of policy dynamics in both European and Asian countries. Family care inputs have increased through policy changes that are not explicitly or primarily about family care, but rather about expansion or changes in formal care. In some cases, this is explicit, in other cases something that happens 'through the back door'. Nonetheless, in all cases there are implications for the family caregivers' time, health and employment options. Future studies are needed to examine longitudinal trends from a comparative perspective to confirm our findings and elucidate how government commitments to formal home care provision and financing interact with the changing nature and volume of family caregiving.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Telemonitoring in heart failure : Update on health-related and economic implications].
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Heart failure is one of the most common and cost-intensive chronic diseases worldwide. Telemonitoring offers the potential to improve care of heart failure treatment and reduce cost. Empirical findings of its efficacy are inconsistent up to now. This systematic review examines the current state of research regarding health-related and economic endpoints.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted in July 2016 using the PubMed database and randomised controlled trials for the years 2011-2016. Only clinical research trials with heart failure patients were considered where the intervention was performed using external monitoring devices which transmitted data via information and communication technology. In all, 10 clinical trials were included.
RESULTS: There is no definite evidence regarding improvement in care based solely on the most recent literature. Hospitalisation for heart failure and health-related quality of life were most positively influenced. There was no correlation between mortality and hospitalisations for all causes regarding telemonitoring. The overall costs tended to be higher for telemonitoring.
CONCLUSION: Further research is needed to examine the health-related and economic benefits of telemonitoring for heart failure. A particular challenge is the evidence of cause-effect relationships within complex technology-supported health-care settings. The latest studies support the previous state of research.
Label Included: 0

Title: The eSMART study protocol: a randomised controlled trial to evaluate electronic symptom management using the advanced symptom management system (ASyMS) remote technology for patients with cancer.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: While some evidence exists that real-time remote symptom monitoring devices can decrease morbidity and prevent unplanned admissions in oncology patients, overall, these studies have significant methodological weaknesses. The electronic Symptom Management using the Advanced Symptom Management System (ASyMS) Remote Technology (eSMART) study is designed to specifically address these weaknesses with an appropriately powered, repeated-measures, parallel-group stratified randomised controlled trial of oncology patients.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A total of 1108 patients scheduled to commence first-line chemotherapy (CTX) for breast, colorectal or haematological cancer will be recruited from multiple sites across five European countries.Patients will be randomised (1:1) to the ASyMS intervention (intervention group) or to standard care currently available at each site (control group). Patients in the control and intervention groups will complete a demographic and clinical questionnaire, as well as a set of valid and reliable electronic patient-reported outcome measures at enrolment, after each of their CTX cycles (up to a maximum of six cycles) and at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after completion of their sixth cycle of CTX. Outcomes that will be assessed include symptom burden (primary outcome), quality of life, supportive care needs, anxiety, self-care self-efficacy, work limitations and cost effectiveness and, from a health professional perspective, changes in clinical practice (secondary outcomes).
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval will be obtained prior to the implementation of all major study amendments. Applications will be submitted to all of the ethics committees that granted initial approval.eSMART received approval from the relevant ethics committees at all of the clinical sites across the five participating countries. In collaboration with the European Cancer Patient Coalition (ECPC), the trial results will be disseminated through publications in scientific journals, presentations at international conferences, and postings on the eSMART website and other relevant clinician and consumer websites; establishment of an eSMART website (www.esmartproject.eu) with publicly accessible general information; creation of an eSMART Twitter Handle, and production of a toolkit for implementing/utilising the ASyMS technology in a variety of clinical practices and other transferable health care contexts.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02356081.
Label Included: 0

Title: SOCIETAL PERSPECTIVE ON COST DRIVERS FOR HEALTH TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT IN SINDH, PAKISTAN.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Understanding cost-drivers and estimating societal costs are important challenges for economic evaluation of health technologies in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). This study assessed community experiences of health resource usage and perceived cost-drivers from a societal perspective to inform the design of an economic model for the Community Level Interventions for Pre-eclampsia (CLIP) trials.
METHODS: Qualitative research was undertaken alongside the CLIP trial in two districts of Sindh province, Pakistan. Nine focus groups were conducted with a wide range of stakeholders, including pregnant women, mothers-in-law, husbands, fathers-in-law, healthcare providers at community and health facility-levels, and health decision/policy makers at district-level. The societal perspective included out-of-pocket (OOP), health system, and program implementation costs related to CLIP. Thematic analysis was performed using NVivo software.
RESULTS: Most pregnant women and male decision makers reported a large burden of OOP costs for in- and out-patient care, informal care from traditional healers, self-medication, childbirth, newborn care, transport to health facility, and missed wages by caretakers. Many healthcare providers identified health system costs associated with human resources for hypertension risk assessment, transport, and communication about patient referrals. Health decision/policy makers recognized program implementation costs (such as the mobile health infrastructure, staff training, and monitoring/supervision) as major investments for the health system.
CONCLUSIONS: Our investigation of care-seeking practices revealed financial implications for families of pregnant women, and program implementation costs for the health system. The societal perspective provided comprehensive knowledge of cost drivers to guide an economic appraisal of the CLIP trial in Sindh, Pakistan.
Label Included: 0

Title: Is it the End for Urologic Pelvic Laparoscopic Surgery?
Abstract: AIM: To scrutinize the rapid development of robotic versus traditional laparoscopic technique in pelvic urologic surgery.
INTRODUCTION: In the last few decades, advances in research and development have led to tremendous progress in medical diagnostics and treatment of disease. Minimally invasive surgery has moved from experimental to becoming the dominant form of surgical management across the surgical specialties. Laparoscopy is nowadays used widely in abdominal surgery, from simple diagnostic laparoscopy to complex colorectal and gynecologic cancer procedures.
METHODS: A literature search of electronic databases (PubMed, Medscape, Embase) using the key words: "pelvic laparoscopy, urologic oncology, robotic surgery, minimally invasive access" was performed for all relevant articles in the English language. Data were extrapolated from the abstracts alone to avoid subjective bias in drawing conclusions.
RESULTS: Telemedicine and telesurgery, the diagnostic and operative process is conducted from a distance. The surgeon uses computer-assisted surgery away from the bedside via a robotic system and performs the surgical task at hand. In pelvic urological cancer surgery the use of robotic technique expands to female and reconstructive procedures as well. The leap forward is so massive, that traditional laparoscopic surgery is starting to be considered less, with a growing number of organizations being now more interested in developing a robotic service. Minimally invasive surgical techniques aim to improve surgical outcome in conjunction with delivery of high-quality patient care. Quality studies demonstrating superiority and cost effectiveness are lacking, however.
CONCLUSIONS: Although tremendous accomplishments took place over a few years, there is still a lot of ground to be covered in standardizing the learning process and evaluating the outcome from the application of new technologies in the field of robotic pelvic surgery.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hospital-at-home Integrated Care Program for Older Patients With Orthopedic Processes: An Efficient Alternative to Usual Hospital-Based Care.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare outcomes and costs for patients with orthogeriatric conditions in a home-based integrated care program versus conventional hospital-based care.
DESIGN: Quasi-experimental longitudinal study.
SETTING: An acute care hospital, an intermediate care hospital, and the community of an urban area in the North of Barcelona, in Southern Europe.
PARTICIPANTS: In a 2-year period, we recruited 367 older patients attended at an orthopedic/traumatology unit in an acute hospital for fractures and/or arthroplasty.
INTERVENTION: Patients were referred to a hospital-at-home integrated care unit or to standard hospital-based postacute orthogeriatric unit, based on their social support and availability of the resource.
MEASUREMENTS: We compared home-based care versus hospital-based care for Relative Functional Gain (gain/loss of function measured by the Barthel Index), mean direct costs, and potential savings in terms of reduction of stay in the acute care hospital.
RESULTS: No differences were found in Relative Functional Gain, median (Q25-Q75) = 0.92 (0.64-1.09) in the home-based group versus 0.93 (0.59-1) in the hospital-based group, P =.333. Total health service direct cost [mean (standard deviation)] was significantly lower for patients receiving home-based care: €7120 (3381) versus €12,149 (6322), P < .001. Length of acute hospital stay was significantly shorter in patients discharged to home-based care [10.1 (7)] than in patients discharged to the postacute orthogeriatric hospital-based unit [15.3 (12) days, P < .001].
CONCLUSION: The hospital-at-home integrated care program was suitable for managing older patients with orthopedic conditions who have good social support for home care. It provided clinical care comparable to the hospital-based model, and it seems to enable earlier acute hospital discharge and lower direct costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote management of heart failure using implantable electronic devices.
Abstract: AIMS: Remote management of heart failure using implantable electronic devices (REM-HF) aimed to assess the clinical and cost-effectiveness of remote monitoring (RM) of heart failure in patients with cardiac implanted electronic devices (CIEDs).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between 29 September 2011 and 31 March 2014, we randomly assigned 1650 patients with heart failure and a CIED to active RM or usual care (UC). The active RM pathway included formalized remote follow-up protocols, and UC was standard practice in nine recruiting centres in England. The primary endpoint in the time to event analysis was the 1st event of death from any cause or unplanned hospitalization for cardiovascular reasons. Secondary endpoints included death from any cause, death from cardiovascular reasons, death from cardiovascular reasons and unplanned cardiovascular hospitalization, unplanned cardiovascular hospitalization, and unplanned hospitalization. REM-HF is registered with ISRCTN (96536028). The mean age of the population was 70 years (range 23-98); 86% were male. Patients were followed for a median of 2.8 years (range 0-4.3 years) completing on 31 January 2016. Patient adherence was high with a drop out of 4.3% over the course of the study. The incidence of the primary endpoint did not differ significantly between active RM and UC groups, which occurred in 42.4 and 40.8% of patients, respectively [hazard ratio 1.01; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.87-1.18; P = 0.87]. There were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to any of the secondary endpoints or the time to the primary endpoint components.
CONCLUSION: Among patients with heart failure and a CIED, RM using weekly downloads and a formalized follow up approach does not improve outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving access to specialists in remote communities: a cross-sectional study and cost analysis of the use of eConsult in Nunavut.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Residents of remote communities face inequities in access to specialists, excessive wait times, and poorly coordinated care. The Champlain BASETM (Building Access to Specialists through eConsultation) service facilitates asynchronous communication between primary care providers (PCP) and specialists. The service was extended to several PCPs in Nunavut in 2014.
OBJECTIVE: To (1) describe the use of eConsult services in Nunavut, and (2) conduct a costing evaluation.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study and cost analysis of all eConsult cases submitted between August 2014 and April 2016.
RESULTS: PCPs from Nunavut submitted 165 eConsult cases. The most popular specialties were dermatology (16%), cardiology (8%), endocrinology (7%), otolaryngology (7%), and obstetrics/gynaecology (7%). Specialists provided a response in a median of 0.9 days (IQR=0.3-3.0, range=0.01-15.02). In 35% of cases, PCPs were able to avoid the face-to-face specialist visits they had originally planned for their patients. Total savings associated with eConsult in Nunavut are estimated at $180,552.73 or $1,100.93 per eConsult.
CONCLUSIONS: The eConsult service provided patients in Nunavut's remote communities with prompt access to specialist advice. The service's chief advantage in Canada's northern communities is its ability to offer electronic access to a breadth of specialties far greater than could be supported locally. Our findings suggest that a territory-wide adoption of eConsult would generate enormous savings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Potential Effects of the Electronic Health Record on the Small Physician Practice: A Delphi Study.
Abstract: The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act established the requirement of all medical practices to have certified electronic health records (EHRs). Some primary concerns that have been delaying implementation are issues of cost, revenue impact, and the effect on the patient encounter. Small physician practices (one to four physicians) account for 46 percent of all physicians. The purpose of this qualitative study using a modified Delphi research design was to examine the potential effect of the adoption of the EHR on revenue, unintended costs or savings, and changes in the patient encounter. Fifteen expert panelists completed the three-round survey process. The expert panelists reached a consensus that EHRs would reduce the number of patients seen per day, thereby reducing their revenue. Although the panelists limited their discussion on the effect of patient outcomes, their most dominant concern was the loss of face-to-face time with the patient. They felt that the use of an EHR would reduce the focus on the patient and potentially cause physicians to miss medical conditions. The results of this study indicate an avenue for EHR vendors to develop educational avenues to teach physicians how to optimize the EHR as well as to share success stories that demonstrate improved financial impact.
Label Included: 0

Title: Can mHealth Revolutionize the Way We Manage Adult Obesity?
Abstract: Obesity is the largest driver of chronic preventable diseases, accounting for an estimated $147 billion or 10 percent of total US healthcare costs in 2008. It has been forecasted that 42 percent of Americans will be obese by 2030. Mobile health (mHealth) technologies target and may modify the behavioral factors that lead to obesity to promote a healthy lifestyle. These technologies could potentially reduce the cost and the morbidity and mortality burden of obesity because of their inexpensive and portable nature. This study aimed to analyze the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of mHealth interventions for adult obesity in the United States. The methodology used in this study was a literature review of 54 articles. Weight, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference reductions, and favorable lifestyle behavior changes were noted across most studies. Existing data and research on efficacy and linked costs indicated that mHealth technologies were more effective than other methods and could be inexpensively delivered remotely to manage adult obesity, offering significant benefits over conventional care. Further studies on the costs and benefits of adapting such mHealth interventions in clinical settings are needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Perception and Needs of Psychologists Toward Blended Care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Blended care, meaning that online (Internet) components are used in combination with face-to-face contact, in mental health is increasingly encouraged, but research about the needs of psychologists is scarce.
METHODS: We assessed the perceptions, design, and barriers toward blended care among members of the Dutch Association of Psychologists through an e-mailed survey. Mean scores (SD) and answer percentages were calculated. Mann-Whitney tests were performed to investigate differences between users and nonusers and primary- and secondary care professionals.
RESULTS: Generally, psychologists (63% response rate) had a positive perception toward blended care and they intended to use it in future (M = 3.71, SD = 1.19). Users of blended care and secondary care professionals were more positive toward blended care than nonusers and primary care professionals. Online psychoeducation, diary forms, and exercises for different therapeutic approaches and communication technology configurations were most welcomed. Still, quite some barriers were mentioned before professionals would use blended care.
CONCLUSIONS: Psychologists had a positive perception toward blended care, as long as attention is paid to the perceived barriers. Results of this survey could be used in the development of online components that correspond to the needs of professionals. Reviewing the needs of psychologists, e-health components of different therapeutic approaches, apart from cognitive behavioral therapy, are welcomed. Future research is necessary to gain insight in the (cost) effectiveness of blended care for different types of patients (e.g., transdiagnostic interventions) and of different therapeutic approaches.
Label Included: 0

Title: Process mining routinely collected electronic health records to define real-life clinical pathways during chemotherapy.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is growing interest in the use of routinely collected electronic health records to enhance service delivery and facilitate clinical research. It should be possible to detect and measure patterns of care and use the data to monitor improvements but there are methodological and data quality challenges. Driven by the desire to model the impact of a patient self-test blood count monitoring service in patients on chemotherapy, we aimed to (i) establish reproducible methods of process-mining electronic health records, (ii) use the outputs derived to define and quantify patient pathways during chemotherapy, and (iii) to gather robust data which is structured to be able to inform a cost-effectiveness decision model of home monitoring of neutropenic status during chemotherapy.
METHODS: Electronic Health Records at a UK oncology centre were included if they had (i) a diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer and received adjuvant epirubicin and cyclosphosphamide chemotherapy or (ii) colorectal cancer and received palliative oxaliplatin and infusional 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy, and (iii) were first diagnosed with cancer between January 2004 and February 2013. Software and a Markov model were developed, producing a schematic of patient pathways during chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Significant variance from the assumed care pathway was evident from the data. Of the 535 patients with breast cancer and 420 with colorectal cancer there were 474 and 329 pathway variants respectively. Only 27 (5%) and 26 (6%) completed the planned six cycles of chemotherapy without having unplanned hospital contact. Over the six cycles, 169 (31.6%) patients with breast cancer and 190 (45.2%) patients with colorectal cancer were admitted to hospital.
CONCLUSION: The pathways of patients on chemotherapy are complex. An iterative approach to addressing semantic and data quality issues enabled the effective use of routinely collected patient records to produce accurate models of the real-life experiences of chemotherapy patients and generate clinically useful information. Very few patients experience the idealised patient pathway that is used to plan their care. A better understanding of real-life clinical pathways through process mining can contribute to care and data quality assurance, identifying unmet needs, facilitating quantification of innovation impact, communicating with stakeholders, and ultimately improving patient care and outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Digital Support Interventions for the Self-Management of Low Back Pain: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Low back pain (LBP) is a common cause of disability and is ranked as the most burdensome health condition globally. Self-management, including components on increased knowledge, monitoring of symptoms, and physical activity, are consistently recommended in clinical guidelines as cost-effective strategies for LBP management and there is increasing interest in the potential role of digital health.
OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to synthesize and critically appraise published evidence concerning the use of interactive digital interventions to support self-management of LBP. The following specific questions were examined: (1) What are the key components of digital self-management interventions for LBP, including theoretical underpinnings? (2) What outcome measures have been used in randomized trials of digital self-management interventions in LBP and what effect, if any, did the intervention have on these? and (3) What specific characteristics or components, if any, of interventions appear to be associated with beneficial outcomes?
METHODS: Bibliographic databases searched from 2000 to March 2016 included Medline, Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Cochrane Library, DoPHER and TRoPHI, Social Science Citation Index, and Science Citation Index. Reference and citation searching was also undertaken. Search strategy combined the following concepts: (1) back pain, (2) digital intervention, and (3) self-management. Only randomized controlled trial (RCT) protocols or completed RCTs involving adults with LBP published in peer-reviewed journals were included. Two reviewers independently screened titles and abstracts, full-text articles, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias using Cochrane risk of bias tool. An independent third reviewer adjudicated on disagreements. Data were synthesized narratively.
RESULTS: Of the total 7014 references identified, 11 were included, describing 9 studies: 6 completed RCTs and 3 protocols for future RCTs. The completed RCTs included a total of 2706 participants (range of 114-1343 participants per study) and varied considerably in the nature and delivery of the interventions, the duration/definition of LBP, the outcomes measured, and the effectiveness of the interventions. Participants were generally white, middle aged, and in 5 of 6 RCT reports, the majority were female and most reported educational level as time at college or higher. Only one study reported between-group differences in favor of the digital intervention. There was considerable variation in the extent of reporting the characteristics, components, and theories underpinning each intervention. None of the studies showed evidence of harm.
CONCLUSIONS: The literature is extremely heterogeneous, making it difficult to understand what might work best, for whom, and in what circumstances. Participants were predominantly female, white, well educated, and middle aged, and thus the wider applicability of digital self-management interventions remains uncertain. No information on cost-effectiveness was reported. The evidence base for interactive digital interventions to support patient self-management of LBP remains weak.
Label Included: 0

Title: Virtual consultations in general practice: embracing innovation, carefully.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Preventing recurrent ankle sprains: Is the use of an App more cost-effective than a printed Booklet? Results of a RCT.
Abstract: Recurrent ankle sprains can be reduced by following a neuromuscular training (NMT) program via a printed Booklet or a mobile application. Regarding the high incidence of ankle sprains, cost-effectiveness regarding implementation can have a large effect on total societal costs. In this economic analysis, we evaluated whether the method of implementing a proven effective NMT program using an App or a Booklet resulted in differences in injury incidence rates leading to costs and hence to differences in cost-effectiveness. In total, 220 athletes with a previous ankle sprain were recruited for this randomized controlled trial with a follow-up of 12 months. Half of the athletes used the freely available "Strengthen your ankle" App and the other half received a printed Booklet. After the 8-week program, athletes were questioned monthly on their recurrent injuries. Primary outcome measures were incidence density of ankle injury and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). During follow-up, 31 athletes suffered from a recurrent ankle sprain that led to costs resulting in a hazard ratio of 1.13 (95% CI: 0.56-2.27). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the App group in comparison with the Booklet group was €361.52. The CE plane shows that there was neither a difference in effects nor in costs between both intervention methods. This study showed that the method of implementing the NMT program using an App or a Booklet led to similar cost-effectiveness ratios and the same occurrence of recurrent injuries leading to costs. Both the App and the Booklet can be used to prevent recurrent ankle injuries, showing no differences in (cost-) effectiveness at 12-month follow-up.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy, cost-utility and reach of an eHealth self-management application 'Oncokompas' that helps cancer survivors to obtain optimal supportive care: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cancer survivors have to deal with a wide range of physical symptoms, psychological, social and existential concerns, and lifestyle issues related to cancer and its treatment. Therefore, it is essential that they have access to optimal supportive care services. The eHealth self-management application Oncokompas was developed to support cancer survivors with where they need to turn to for advice and guidance, as well as to increase their knowledge on the availability of optimal support. A randomised controlled trial will be conducted to assess the efficacy, cost-utility and reach of Oncokompas as an eHealth self-management application compared with care as usual among cancer survivors.
METHODS/DESIGN: Adult cancer survivors diagnosed with breast, colorectal or head and neck cancer or lymphoma who are at 3 months to 5 years since curative treatment will be included. In total, 544 cancer survivors will be randomly assigned to the intervention group or a wait-list control group. The primary outcome measure is patient activation. Secondary outcome measures include self-efficacy, personal control, perceived patient-physician interaction, need for supportive care, mental adjustment to cancer and health-related quality of life. Furthermore, cost-utility outcomes will be assessed. Reach is defined as the percentage of cancer survivors who get access to Oncokompas within the context of this trial. Questionnaires will be administered at baseline, post-intervention and at 3- and 6-month follow-up.
DISCUSSION: In this study, we will evaluate the efficacy and cost-utility of Oncokompas among cancer survivors, as well as the reach of Oncokompas. These are essential first steps in the translation of research into practice and contribute to sustainable adoption, implementation and maintenance of an evidence-based Oncokompas.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register identifier: NTR5774 . Registered on 8 March 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine for Diabetic Retinopathy Screening.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in dermatology: findings and experiences worldwide - a systematic literature review.
Abstract: Telemedicine has become an important element of health care in many countries and profited from the technological progress of the last two decades. Due to the visual character of the dermatological specialty, teledermatology in particular participated in that development and is becoming a major tool in dermatological consultation. The objective of this article was to identify the use of teledermatology across the world based on published original articles. A systematic literature search of the MEDLINE and Embase databases for eligible publications (predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria) and a cross-validation search were conducted. Search results were reviewed systematically. The search resulted in 204 publications meeting the inclusion criteria for analysis. The highest number of published studies on teledermatology was performed in the United States, followed by the United Kingdom, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy and Austria. The majority of dermatological indications for telemedical consultations were not specified or included various kinds of skin diseases, followed by skin cancer and wounds. Research questions predominantly focused on concordance, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness to determine the value. Teledermatology proved to be a reliable consultation tool in the majority of studies. If specified, telemedicine was used in daily dermatological routine for patient management purposes, to consult patients in peripheral locations, or for medical support in nursing homes or home care settings. The application of teledermatology worldwide is highest in North American and European countries, while countries with poor geographical distribution of physicians seem to be under-represented in teledermatological use, as concluded from publication output. Regarding indications, comparison with classic consultation and area of application, most studies were of general nature. For precise determination of the value, systematic studies would be needed. However, teledermatology is already accepted as a valid tool.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of telehealthcare to patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: results from the Danish 'TeleCare North' cluster-randomised trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of a telehealthcare solution in addition to usual care compared with usual care.
DESIGN: A 12-month cost-utility analysis conducted alongside a cluster-randomised trial.
SETTING: Community-based setting in the geographical area of North Denmark Region in Denmark.
PARTICIPANTS: 26 municipality districts define randomisation clusters with 13 districts in each arm. 1225 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were enrolled, of which 578 patients were randomised to telehealthcare and 647 to usual care.
INTERVENTIONS: In addition to usual care, patients in the intervention group received a set of telehealthcare equipment and were monitored by a municipality-based healthcare team. Patients in the control group received usual care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-years gained from baseline up to 12 months follow-up.
RESULTS: From a healthcare and social sector perspective, the adjusted mean difference in total costs between telehealthcare and usual care was €728 (95% CI -754 to 2211) and the adjusted mean difference in quality-adjusted life-years gained was 0.0132 (95% CI -0.0083 to 0.0346). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was €55 327 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. Decision-makers should be willing to pay more than €55 000 to achieve a probability of cost-effectiveness >50%. This conclusion is robust to changes in the definition of hospital contacts and reduced intervention costs. Only in the most optimistic scenario combining the effects of all sensitivity analyses, does the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio fall below the UK thresholds values (€21 068 per quality-adjusted life-year).
CONCLUSIONS: Telehealthcare is unlikely to be a cost-effective addition to usual care, if it is offered to all patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and if the willingness-to-pay threshold values from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence are applied.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov, NCT01984840, 14 November 2013.
Label Included: 1

Title: Web-based integrated bipolar parenting intervention for parents with bipolar disorder: a randomised controlled pilot trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People with bipolar disorder (BD) experience additional parenting challenges associated with mood driven fluctuations in communication, impulse control and motivation. This paper describes a novel web-based self-management approach (Integrated Bipolar Parenting Intervention; IBPI) to support parents with BD.
METHOD: Parents with BD with children aged 3-10 years randomised to IBPI plus treatment as usual (TAU) or waitlist control (WL). IBPI offered 16 weeks access to interactive self-management information concerning BD and parenting issues. Feasibility was through recruitment, retention and web usage. Clinical outcomes were assessed at baseline, 16, 24, 36 and 48 weeks.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN75279027.
RESULTS: Ninety seven participants were recruited with 98% retention to end of intervention and 90% to final follow-up (56%-94% data analysed of retained participants; higher rates for observer measures). 77% of IBPI participants accessed the website (53% accessed parenting modules). Child behaviour, parenting sense of competence and parenting stress improved significantly in IBPI compared to WL to end of intervention, sustained to 48 weeks. Impacts of IBPI on family functioning, parent mood and time to mood relapse were not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Online self-management support for parents with BD is feasible, with promising improvements in parenting and child behaviour outcomes. A definitive clinical and cost-effectiveness trial is required to confirm and extend these findings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemonitoring and Medical Care of Heart Failure Patients Supported by Left Ventricular Assist Devices - The Medolution Project.
Abstract: Long-term survival after left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation in heart failure patients is mainly determined by a sophisticated after-care. Ambulatory visits only take place every 12 weeks. In case of life-threatening complications (pump thrombosis, driveline infection) this might lead to delayed diagnosis and delayed intervention. It is the intention of the international project Medolution (Medical care evolution) to develop new approaches in order to create best structures for telemonitoring of LVAD patients. In the very early period of the project a questionnaire was sent to 180 LVAD patients to evaluate the need and acceptance of telemonitoring. Thereafter, a graphical user interface (GUI) mockup was developed as one of the first steps to improve the continuous contact between the LVAD patient and the physician. As a final goal the Medolution project aims to bundle all relevant informations from different data sources into one platform in order to provide the physician a comprehensive overview of a patient's situation. In the systems background a big data analysis should run permanently and should try to detect abnormalities and correlations as well. At crucial events, a notification system should inform the physician and should provide the causing data via a decision support system. With this new system we are expecting early detection and prevention of common and partially life-threatening complications, less readmissions to the hospital, an increase in quality of life for the patients and less costs for the health care system as well.
Label Included: 0

Title: Identification of Cost Indicators with Significant Economic Impact on the Total Treatment Costs of Chronic Heart Failure Patients - A Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: Increasing treatment costs of HF patients affect the initiation of appropriate treatment method. Divergent approaches to measure the costs of treatment and the lack of common cost indicators impede the comparison of therapy settings.
OBJECTIVES: In the context of the present meta-analysis, key cost indicators from the perspective of healthcare providers are to be identified, described, analyzed and quantified. This review helps narrowing down the cost indicators, which have the most significant economic impact on the total treatment costs of HF patients. Telemedical services are to be compared to standard therapy methods.
METHODS: The identification process was based on several steps. For the quantitative synthesis, we used the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statement. An additional set of criteria was defined for the following qualitative analysis.
RESULTS: 5 key cost indicators were identified with significant economic impact on the treatment costs of HF patients.
CONCLUSION: 95% of the reported treatment costs could be captured based on the identified cost indicators.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs of outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy (OPAT) administered by Hospital at Home units in Spain.
Abstract: The aim of this study was to assess the direct healthcare costs of outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy (OPAT) administered by Hospital at Home (HaH) units in Spain. An observational, multicentre, economic evaluation of retrospective cohorts was conducted. Patients were treated at home by the HaH units of three Spanish hospitals between January 2012 and December 2013. From the cost accounting of HaH OPAT (staff, pharmacy, transportation, diagnostic tests and structural), the cost of each outpatient course was obtained following a top-down strategy based on the use of resources. Costs associated with inpatient stay, if any, were estimated based on length of stay and ICD-9-CM diagnosis. There were 1324 HaH episodes in 1190 patients (median age 70 years). The median (interquartile range) stay at home was 10 days (7-15 days). Of the OPAT episodes, 91.5% resulted in cure or improvement on completion of intravenous therapy. The mean total cost of each infectious episode was €6707 [95% confidence interval (CI) €6189-7406]. The mean cost per OPAT episode was €1356 (95% CI €1247-1560), mainly distributed between healthcare staff costs (46%) and pharmacy costs (39%). The mean cost of inpatient hospitalisation of an infectious episode was €4357 (95% CI €3947-4977). The cost per day of inpatient hospitalisation was €519, whilst the cost per day of OPAT was €98, meaning a saving of 81%. This study shows that OPAT administered by HaH units resulted in lower costs compared with inpatient care in Spain.
Label Included: 0

Title: Association of Cost Sharing With Use of Home Health Services Among Medicare Advantage Enrollees.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Several policy proposals advocate introducing copayments for home health care in the Medicare program. To our knowledge, no prior studies have assessed this cost-containment strategy.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the association of home health copayments with use of home health services.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A difference-in-differences case-control study of 18 Medicare Advantage (MA) plans that introduced copayments for home health care between 2007 and 2011 and 18 concurrent control MA plans. The study included 135 302 enrollees in plans that introduced copayment and 155 892 enrollees in matched control plans.
EXPOSURES: Introduction of copayments for home health care between 2007 and 2011.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Proportion of enrollees receiving home health care, annual numbers of home health episodes, and days receiving home health care.
RESULTS: Copayments for home health visits ranged from $5 to $20 per visit, which were estimated to be associated with $165 (interquartile range [IQR], $45-$180) to $660 (IQR, $180-$720) in out-of-pocket spending for the average user of home health care. The increased copayment for home health care was not associated with the proportion of enrollees receiving home health care (adjusted difference-in-differences, -0.15 percentage points; 95% CI, -0.38 to 0.09), the number of home health episodes per user (adjusted difference-in-differences, 0.01; 95% CI, -0.01 to 0.03), and home health days per user (adjusted difference-in-differences, -0.19; 95% CI, -3.02 to 2.64). In both intervention and control plans and across all levels of copayments, we observed higher disenrollment rates among enrollees with greater baseline use of home health care.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: We found no evidence that imposing copayments reduced the use of home health services among older adults. More intensive use of home health services was associated with increased rates of disenrollment in MA plans. The findings raise questions about the potential effectiveness of this cost-containment strategy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Treating Opioid Dependence with Buprenorphine in the Safety Net: Critical Learning from Clinical Data.
Abstract: Research has examined the safety, efficacy, feasibility, and cost-effectiveness of buprenorphine for the treatment of opioid dependence, but few studies have examined patient and provider experiences, especially in community health centers. Using de-identified electronic health record system (EHRS) data from 70 OCHIN community health centers (n = 1825), this cross-sectional analysis compared the demographics, comorbidities, and service utilization of patients receiving buprenorphine to those not receiving medication-assisted treatment (MAT). Compared to non-MAT patients, buprenorphine patients were younger and less likely to be Hispanic or live in poverty. Buprenorphine patients were less likely to have Medicaid insurance coverage, more likely to self-pay, and have private insurance coverage. Buprenorphine patients were less likely to have problem medical comorbidities or be coprescribed high-risk medications. It is important for providers, clinic administrators, and patients to understand the clinical application of medications for opioid dependence to ensure safe and effective care within safety net clinics.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Cost-effectiveness of Synchronous vs. Asynchronous Telepsychiatry in Prison Inmates With Depression].
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Telepsychiatry is defined as the use of information and communication technology (ICT) in providing remote psychiatric services. Telepsychiatry is applied using two types of communication: synchronous (real time) and asynchronous (store and forward).
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of a synchronous and an asynchronous telepsychiatric model in prison inmate patients with symptoms of depression.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness study was performed on a population consisting of 157 patients from the Establecimiento Penitenciario y Carcelario de Mediana Seguridad de Manizales, Colombia. The sample was determined by applying Zung self-administered surveys for depression (1965) and the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS), the latter being the tool used for the comparison.
RESULTS: Initial Hamilton score, arrival time, duration of system downtime, and clinical effectiveness variables had normal distributions (P>.05). There were significant differences (P<.001) between care costs for the different models, showing that the mean cost of the asynchronous model is less than synchronous model, and making the asynchronous model more cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The asynchronous model is the most cost-effective model of telepsychiatry care for patients with depression admitted to a detention centre, according to the results of clinical effectiveness, cost measurement, and patient satisfaction.
Label Included: 0

Title: UK AMD/DR EMR REPORT IX: comparative effectiveness of predominantly as needed (PRN) ranibizumab versus continuous aflibercept in UK clinical practice.
Abstract: AIMS: To compare the effectiveness of continuous aflibercept versus pro re nata (PRN) ranibizumab therapy for neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD).
METHODS: Multicentre, national electronic medical record (EMR) study on treatment naive nAMD eyes undergoing PRN ranibizumab or continuous (fixed or treat and extend (F/TE)) aflibercept from 21 UK hospitals. Anonymised data were extracted, and eyes were matched on age, gender, starting visual acuity (VA) and year of starting treatment. Primary outcome was change in vision at 1 year.
RESULTS: 1884 eyes (942 eyes in each group) were included. At year 1, patients on PRN ranibizumab gained 1.6 ETDRS (Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study) letters (95% CI 0.5 to 2.7, p=0.004), while patients on F/TE aflibercept gained 6.1 letters (95% CI 5.1 to 7.1, p=2.2e-16). Change in vision at 1 year of the F/TE aflibercept group was 4.1 letters higher (95% CI 2.5 to 5.8, p=1.3e-06) compared with the PRN ranibizumab group after adjusting for age, starting VA, gender and year of starting therapy. The F/TE aflibercept group had significantly more injections compared with the PRN ranibizumab group (7.0 vs 5.8, p<2.2e-16), but required less clinic visits than the PRN ranibizumab group (10.8 vs 9.0, p<2.2e-16). Cost-effectiveness analysis showed an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 58 047.14 GBP/quality-adjusted life year for continuous aflibercept over PRN ranibizumab.
CONCLUSION: Aflibercept achieved greater VA gains at 1 year than ranibizumab. The observed VA differences are small and likely to be related to more frequent treatment with aflibercept, suggesting that ranibizumab should also be delivered by F/TE posology.
Label Included: 0

Title: Standardised virtual fracture clinic management of radiographically stable Weber B ankle fractures is safe, cost effective and reproducible.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Virtual clinics have been shown to be safe and cost-effective in many specialties, yet barriers exist to their implementation in orthopaedics. Ankle fractures are common and therefore represent a significant clinical workload. The aim of this study was to evaluate the management of radiographically stable Weber B ankle fractures using a standardised treatment protocol in a virtual fracture clinic setting, to assess clinical outcomes, any complications and its cost effectiveness.
METHODS: All patients referred to the VFC with an actual or suspected stable Weber B ankle fracture between September 2013 and September 2015 were identified. The primary outcome measure was successful fracture union. Any complications were noted and a cost analysis comparing the VFC and traditional fracture clinic models was undertaken.
RESULTS: 314 patients referred with a radiographically stable Weber B ankle fracture were identified. Follow up was complete for 98.4% (309/314) of patients. The union rate was 99.4% (307/309) in patients where follow up was completed. 3.5% (11/309) of patients were underwent acute surgical intervention. Of these patients, 6 were identified as having an unstable injury on weight bearing radiographs at 2 weeks and underwent ORIF, 4 were identified as having an unstable injury on EUA and underwent ORIF and 1 had an EUA with no fixation. 2 patients required ORIF for radiographically confirmed non-union. A cost saving analysis comparing the traditional fracture clinic model and VFC model revealed a saving of £237 per patient (32% reduction) with a VFC model. This represents an estimated saving of almost £40,000 per year for the management of this injury alone in our institution.
CONCLUSION: Our study supports the use of a virtual fracture clinic model that is standardised, initiated in ED, and is both safe and cost-effective in the management of radiographically stable Weber B ankle fractures.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III-Retrospective Cohort Study.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost and health care utilization in patients with asthma and high oral corticosteroid use.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Reaching rural Ohio with intellectual disability psychiatry.
Abstract: Individuals with intellectual disability experience higher rates of mental illness when compared with the general population, and there is a lack of medical and mental health professionals in rural and under-served areas. With the increase in discharge of individuals from institutional settings back to their home communities into the least restrictive environments, there are more patients with complex needs being added to the schedules of physicians in the outpatient delivery care system. Patients with disabilities may not travel well or tolerate changes in routine so may not have access to psychiatry. Utilization of telepsychiatry is well suited to this specialized patient population because it allows a highly traumatized group to meet with a psychiatrist and other mental health professionals from a location of their choice. Ohio's Telepsychiatry Project for Intellectual Disability was initiated in 2012 to serve outlying communities with a lack of infrastructure and resources, to provide specialized mental health services to individuals with co-occurring mental illness and intellectual disability. After five years, over 900 patients with intellectual disability from 64 of Ohio's 88 counties receive specialized mental health treatment through this statewide grant-funded project.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of physical activity promoting technology-based distance interventions compared to usual care. Systematic review, meta-analysis and meta-regression.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Technology has been thought to have strong potential for promoting physical activity, but the evidence has remained unclear. The aim of this study was to examine whether a technology-based distance intervention promoting physical activity is more effective than a physical activity intervention without the use of technology. This systematic review is registered in Prospero (CRD42016035831).
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: A systematic literature search of studies published between January 2000 to December 2015 was conducted in CENTRAL, EMBASE, Ovid MEDLINE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, OT-Seeker, WOS and PEDro. Studies were selected by two independent authors applying the following PICOS criteria P) adults, I) technology-based distance intervention promoting physical activity, C) distance intervention promoting physical activity without technology, O) physical activity, S) RCT. Quality was assessed following the guidelines of Cochrane Back Review Group. Meta-analysis and meta-regression were performed using R.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: From 3 031 studies, 23 randomized controlled trials with a total of 4 645 participants were included in the meta-analysis. The quality of the studies was moderate (mean 6 out of the maximum 12, with range of 4-9). Technology-based interventions were 12% more effective than similar or minimal control interventions in increasing physical activity (RR: 1.12; 95% CI: 1.01 to 1.25, P=0.03). Compared to minimal control interventions, technology-based interventions were 19% more effective (RR: 1.19; 95% CI 1.05 to 1.35, P=0.0096). In the interventions targeting patients, use of technology was 25% more effective than non-use (P=0.027). No differences were observed in physical activity between the effectiveness of interactive, non-interactive and self-monitoring technologies. Study quality, intervention duration and whether the measures used were subjective or objective were not significantly related to the amount of physical activity engaged in.
CONCLUSIONS: Technology-based delivery of interventions seems to be more effective than usual care in promoting physical activity, particularly in the interventions targeting patients. Future research should investigate the cost-effectiveness of the use of distance technology for this purpose. Technology benefits rehabilitation, and can be considered for use in clinical practice, may adequately replace face-to-face meetings and stimulate more intensive rehabilitation in daily life.
Label Included: 0

Title: Optimizing staffing, quality, and cost in home healthcare nursing: theory synthesis.
Abstract: AIMS: To propose a new theory pinpointing the optimal nurse staffing threshold delivering the maximum quality of care relative to attendant costs in home health care.
BACKGROUND: Little knowledge exists on the theoretical foundation addressing the inter-relationship among quality of care, nurse staffing, and cost.
DESIGN: Theory synthesis.
DATA SOURCES: Cochrane Library, PubMed, CINAHL, EBSCOhost Web and Web of Science (25 February - 26 April 2013; 20 January - 22 March 2015).
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: Most of the existing theories/models lacked the detail necessary to explain the relationship among quality of care, nurse staffing and cost. Two notable exceptions are: 'Production Function for Staffing and Quality in Nursing Homes,' which describes an S-shaped trajectory between quality of care and nurse staffing and 'Thirty-day Survival Isoquant and Estimated Costs According to the Nurse Staff Mix,' which depicts a positive quadric relationship between nurse staffing and cost according to quality of care. A synthesis of these theories led to an innovative multi-dimensional econometric theory helping to determine the maximum quality of care for patients while simultaneously delivering nurse staffing in the most cost-effective way. The theory-driven threshold, navigated by Mathematical Programming based on the Duality Theorem in Mathematical Economics, will help nurse executives defend sufficient nurse staffing with scientific justification to ensure optimal patient care; help stakeholders set an evidence-based reasonable economical goal; and facilitate patient-centred decision-making in choosing the institution which delivers the best quality of care.
CONCLUSIONS: A new theory to determine the optimum nurse staffing maximizing quality of care relative to cost was proposed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Physician Order Entry Clerical Support Improves Physician Satisfaction and Productivity.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To examine the impact of clerical support personnel for physician order entry on physician satisfaction, productivity, timeliness with electronic health record (EHR) documentation, and physician attitudes.
METHODS: All seven part-time physicians at an academic general internal medicine practice were included in this quasi-experimental (single group, pre- and postintervention) mixed-methods study. One full-time clerical support staff member was trained and hired to enter physician orders in the EHR and conduct previsit planning. Physician satisfaction, productivity, timeliness with EHR documentation, and physician attitudes toward the intervention were measured.
RESULTS: Four months after the intervention, physicians reported improvements in overall quality of life (good quality, 71%-100%), personal balance (43%-71%), and burnout (weekly, 43%-14%; callousness, 14%-0%). Matched for quarter, productivity increased: work relative value unit (wRVU) per session increased by 20.5% (before, April-June 2014; after, April-June 2015; range -9.2% to 27.5%). Physicians reported feeling more supported, more focused on patient care, and less stressed and fatigued after the intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: This study supports the use of physician order entry clerical personnel as a simple, cost-effective intervention to improve the work lives of primary care physicians.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth for diabetes self-management in primary healthcare: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: Background Diabetes mellitus is prevalent worldwide and the majority of the patients with this metabolic disease are managed in primary healthcare settings. Self-management is, therefore, crucial for the health and wellbeing of people with diabetes. Due to the advancement of information technologies, telehealth intervention as self-management measures potentially offer a possible solution in the primary healthcare arena to cope with the increasing demand for diabetes control. Methods This study aims to systematically review the effectiveness of telehealth on diabetes control self-management in primary healthcare settings. A keyword search was conducted in six databases for randomised controlled trials. Data extraction and quality assessment of the reviewed studies were done with standardised forms and checklists. A meta-analysis was also performed in this review. Results Of the seven studies included in this review, all of them reported a decreasing level of glycated haemoglobin. Four studies examined the effect of telehealth interventions on fasting plasma glucose levels; however, the overall effects were insignificant. It is, nonetheless, encouraging to see two studies which investigated their effect on two-hour post-meal glucose levels, and showed positive effects for glycaemic control self-management in the short term. This finding, though only from two studies, points to a promising future of utilising telehealth interventions in controlling this metabolic disease in the primary healthcare arena. Conclusions This review showed positive effects of telehealth interventions for diabetes control self-management at the primary healthcare stage. Further studies are required to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of telehealth interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs associated with Barrett's esophagus screening in the community: an economic analysis of a prospective randomized controlled trial of sedated versus hospital unsedated versus mobile community unsedated endoscopy.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Data on the economic impact associated with screening for Barrett's esophagus (BE) are limited. As part of a comparative effectiveness randomized trial of unsedated transnasal endoscopy (uTNE) and sedated EGD (sEGD), we assessed costs associated with BE screening.
METHODS: Patients were randomly allocated to 3 techniques: sEGD or uTNE in a hospital setting (huTNE) versus uTNE in a mobile research van (muTNE). Patients were called 1 and 30 days after screening to assess loss of work (because of the screening procedure) and medical care sought after procedure. Direct medical costs were extracted from billing claims databases. Indirect costs (loss of work for subject and caregiver) were estimated using patient reported data. Statistical analyses including multivariable analysis accounting for comorbidities were conducted to compare costs.
RESULTS: Two hundred nine patients were screened (61 sEGD, 72 huTNE, and 76 muTNE). Thirty-day direct medical costs and indirect costs were significantly higher in the sEGD than the huTNE and muTNE groups. Total costs (direct medical + indirect costs) were also significantly higher in the sEGD than in the uTNE group. The muTNE group had significantly lower costs than the huTNE group. Adjustment for age, sex, and comorbidities on multivariable analysis did not change this conclusion.
CONCLUSIONS: Short-term direct, indirect, and total costs of screening are significantly lower with uTNE compared with sEGD. Mobile uTNE costs were lower than huTNE costs, raising the possibility of mobile screening as a novel method of screening for BE and esophageal adenocarcinoma.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evidence Europe 2017. London, UK - February 22-23, 2017.
Abstract: As the political backdrop changes in both the U.S. and Europe, volatility in the pharma industry is beginning to be felt as the sector becomes sensitive to the uncertainty. U.S. President Trump has stated he will pursue an agenda against high U.S. drug prices and is expected to seek to repeal the Affordable Care Act, while in Europe, Brexit casts further unknowns in regulatory authorization procedures, trade and external reference pricing. With these factors in mind, Terrapin's Evidence Europe meeting provided for a very topical discussion on the use of evidence to define and communicate value in healthcare. With a particular focus on real-world evidence, the conference used presentations, panel briefings and roundtable discussions to foster debate on the challenges faced by industry as it negotiates the current fragile environment.
Label Included: 0

Title: Computation of adherence to medication and visualization of medication histories in R with AdhereR: Towards transparent and reproducible use of electronic healthcare data.
Abstract: Adherence to medications is an important indicator of the quality of medication management and impacts on health outcomes and cost-effectiveness of healthcare delivery. Electronic healthcare data (EHD) are increasingly used to estimate adherence in research and clinical practice, yet standardization and transparency of data processing are still a concern. Comprehensive and flexible open-source algorithms can facilitate the development of high-quality, consistent, and reproducible evidence in this field. Some EHD-based clinical decision support systems (CDSS) include visualization of medication histories, but this is rarely integrated in adherence analyses and not easily accessible for data exploration or implementation in new clinical settings. We introduce AdhereR, a package for the widely used open-source statistical environment R, designed to support researchers in computing EHD-based adherence estimates and in visualizing individual medication histories and adherence patterns. AdhereR implements a set of functions that are consistent with current adherence guidelines, definitions and operationalizations. We illustrate the use of AdhereR with an example dataset of 2-year records of 100 patients and describe the various analysis choices possible and how they can be adapted to different health conditions and types of medications. The package is freely available for use and its implementation facilitates the integration of medication history visualizations in open-source CDSS platforms.
Label Included: 0

Title: Importance of Costs and Cost Effectiveness of Palliative Care.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of a transitional home-based palliative care program for patients with end-stage heart failure.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Studies have shown positive clinical outcomes of specialist palliative care for end-stage heart failure patients, but cost-effectiveness evaluation is lacking.
AIM: To examine the cost-effectiveness of a transitional home-based palliative care program for patients with end-stage heart failure patients as compared to the customary palliative care service.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted alongside a randomized controlled trial (Trial number: NCT02086305). The costs included pre-program training, intervention, and hospital use. Quality of life was measured using SF-6D.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: The study took place in three hospitals in Hong Kong. The inclusion criteria were meeting clinical indicators for end-stage heart failure patients including clinician-judged last year of life, discharged to home within the service area, and palliative care referral accepted. A total of 84 subjects (study = 43, control = 41) were recruited.
RESULTS: When the study group was compared to the control group, the net incremental quality-adjusted life years gain was 0.0012 (28 days)/0.0077 (84 days) and the net incremental costs per case was -HK$7935 (28 days)/-HK$26,084 (84 days). The probability of being cost-effective was 85% (28 days)/100% (84 days) based on the cost-effectiveness thresholds recommended both by National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (£20,000/quality-adjusted life years) and World Health Organization (Hong Kong gross domestic product/capita in 2015, HK$328117).
CONCLUSION: Results suggest that a transitional home-based palliative care program is more cost-effective than customary palliative care service. Limitations of the study include small sample size, study confined to one city, clinic consultation costs, and societal costs including patient costs and unpaid care-giving costs were not included.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of a Price Transparency Intervention in the Electronic Health Record on Clinician Ordering of Inpatient Laboratory Tests: The PRICE Randomized Clinical Trial.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Many health systems are considering increasing price transparency at the time of order entry. However, evidence of its impact on clinician ordering behavior is inconsistent and limited to single-site evaluations of shorter duration.
OBJECTIVE: To test the effect of displaying Medicare allowable fees for inpatient laboratory tests on clinician ordering behavior over 1 year.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: The Pragmatic Randomized Introduction of Cost data through the electronic health record (PRICE) trial was a randomized clinical trial comparing a 1-year intervention to a 1-year preintervention period, and adjusting for time trends and patient characteristics. The trial took place at 3 hospitals in Philadelphia between April 2014 and April 2016 and included 98 529 patients comprising 142 921 hospital admissions.
INTERVENTIONS: Inpatient laboratory test groups were randomly assigned to display Medicare allowable fees (30 in intervention) or not (30 in control) in the electronic health record.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Primary outcome was the number of tests ordered per patient-day. Secondary outcomes were tests performed per patient-day and Medicare associated fees.
RESULTS: The sample included 142 921 hospital admissions representing patients who were 51.9% white (74 165), 38.9% black (55 526), and 56.9% female (81 291) with a mean (SD) age of 54.7 (19.0) years. Preintervention trends of order rates among the intervention and control groups were similar. In adjusted analyses of the intervention group compared with the control group over time, there were no significant changes in overall test ordering behavior (0.05 tests ordered per patient-day; 95% CI, -0.002 to 0.09; P = .06) or associated fees ($0.24 per patient-day; 95% CI, -$0.42 to $0.91; P = .47). Exploratory subset analyses found small but significant differences in tests ordered per patient-day based on patient intensive care unit (ICU) stay (patients with ICU stay: -0.16; 95% CI, -0.31 to -0.01; P = .04; patients without ICU stay: 0.13; 95% CI, 0.08-0.17; P < .001) and the magnitude of associated fees (top quartile of tests based on fee value: -0.01; 95% CI, -0.02 to -0.01; P = .04; bottom quartile: 0.03; 95% CI, 0.002-0.06; P = .04). Adjusted analyses of tests that were performed found a small but significant overall increase in the intervention group relative to the control group over time (0.08 tests performed per patient day, 95% CI, 0.03-0.12; P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Displaying Medicare allowable fees for inpatient laboratory tests did not lead to a significant change in overall clinician ordering behavior or associated fees.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT02355496.
Label Included: 0

Title: Defining a staged-based process for economic and financial evaluations of mHealth programs.
Abstract: Mobile and wireless technology for health (mHealth) has the potential to improve health outcomes by addressing critical health systems constraints that impede coverage, utilization, and effectiveness of health services. To date, few mHealth programs have been implemented at scale and there remains a paucity of evidence on their effectiveness and value for money. This paper aims to improve understanding among mHealth program managers and key stakeholders of how to select methods for economic evaluation (comparative analysis for determining value for money) and financial evaluation (determination of the cost of implementing an intervention, estimation of costs for sustaining or expanding an intervention, and assessment of its affordability). We outline a 6 stage-based process for selecting and integrating economic and financial evaluation methods into the monitoring and evaluation of mHealth solutions including (1) defining the program strategy and linkages with key outcomes, (2) assessment of effectiveness, (3) full economic evaluation or partial evaluation, (4) sub-group analyses, (5) estimating resource requirements for expansion, (6) affordability assessment and identification of models for financial sustainability. While application of these stages optimally occurs linearly, finite resources, limited technical expertise, and the timing of evaluation initiation may impede this. We recommend that analysts prioritize economic and financial evaluation methods based on programmatic linkages with health outcomes; alignment with an mHealth solution's broader stage of maturity and stage of evaluation; overarching monitoring and evaluation activities; stakeholder evidence needs; time point of initiation; and available resources for evaluations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Beyond cascade screening: detection of familial hypercholesterolaemia at childhood immunization and other strategies.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Familial hypercholesterolaemia is a common genetic disorder that accelerates premature coronary heart disease. Although effective treatments are available, the majority of individuals remain undiagnosed. We review new evidence for improving the detection of familial hypercholesterolaemia.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent studies have demonstrated that universal screening of children for familial hypercholesterolaemia may be highly effective at the time of immunization if combined with reverse cascade testing of adult family members, who have a more immediate risk of a coronary event. Alerts on laboratory reports and the application of bioinformatics to electronic health records may also be useful for identifying familial hypercholesterolaemia in community settings. Effective detection, diagnosis, and codification of familial hypercholesterolaemia are essential for the development of registries.
SUMMARY: Although the cost-effectiveness of screening programs for familial hypercholesterolaemia in childhood remains to be established, combining universal and reverse cascade screening, complemented by opportunistic identification of individuals in high-risk settings, use of laboratory alerts, and screening of electronic health records are likely to have a high yield in the detection of familial hypercholesterolaemia in the community.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of a University-Based Outpatient Telemedicine Program on Time Savings, Travel Costs, and Environmental Pollutants.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to estimate travel-related and environmental savings resulting from the use of telemedicine for outpatient specialty consultations with a university telemedicine program.
METHODS: The study was designed to retrospectively analyze the telemedicine consultation database at the University of California Davis Health System (UCDHS) between July 1996 and December 2013. Travel distances and travel times were calculated between the patient home, the telemedicine clinic, and the UCDHS in-person clinic. Travel cost savings and environmental impact were calculated by determining differences in mileage reimbursement rate and emissions between those incurred in attending telemedicine appointments and those that would have been incurred if a visit to the hub site had been necessary.
RESULTS: There were 19,246 consultations identified among 11,281 unique patients. Telemedicine visits resulted in a total travel distance savings of 5,345,602 miles, a total travel time savings of 4,708,891 minutes or 8.96 years, and a total direct travel cost savings of $2,882,056. The mean per-consultation round-trip distance savings were 278 miles, average travel time savings were 245 minutes, and average cost savings were $156. Telemedicine consultations resulted in a total emissions savings of 1969 metric tons of CO2, 50 metric tons of CO, 3.7 metric tons of NOx, and 5.5 metric tons of volatile organic compounds.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the positive impact of a health system's outpatient telemedicine program on patient travel time, patient travel costs, and environmental pollutants.
Label Included: 0

Title: Reduced Healthcare Use and Apparent Savings with Passive Home Monitoring Technology: A Pilot Study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To conduct a cost analysis of ambient assisted living technology, which is promising for improving the ability of individuals and care providers to monitor daily activities and gain better awareness through proactive management of health and safety.
DESIGN: Three-arm cohort study.
SETTING: Homes of enrollees of a state-based healthcare plan for older adults.
PARTICIPANTS: Enrollees dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid (N = 268).
INTERVENTION: Health and safety passive remote patient monitoring (PRPM) systems were installed in enrollees' homes (the intervention group) with monitoring and proactive intervention of a case manager when deviation from baseline subject behavior was detected.
MEASUREMENTS: Claims data were collected over 12 months to assess healthcare use and costs in the intervention group and to compare use and costs with those of two control groups: a concurrent group of enrollees who declined the technology and a historical cohort matched on age to the participation group.
RESULTS: Although the small sample size precluded cost differences that were statistically significant, the participant group used substantially less custodial care, emergency department (ED) services, inpatient stays, and ED costs than the two control groups.
CONCLUSION: In this pilot study, the PRPM system was associated with apparent healthcare cost savings. Although more cost analyses are warranted, ambient assisted living technologies are a potentially valuable investment for older adult care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic impact of remote monitoring after implantable defibrillators implantation in heart failure patients: an analysis from the EFFECT study.
Abstract: AIMS: Heart failure (HF) patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICD) require admissions for disease management and out-patient visits for disease management and assessment of device performance. These admissions place a significant burden on the National Health Service. Remote monitoring (RM) is an effective alternative to frequent hospital visits. The EFFECT study was a multicentre observational investigation aiming to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of RM compared with in-office visits standard management (SM). The present analysis is an economic evaluation of the results of the EFFECT trial.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The present analysis considered the direct consumption of healthcare resources over 12-month follow-up. Standard tariffs were applied to hospitalizations, in-office visits and remote device interrogations. Economic comparisons were also carried out by means of propensity score (PS) analysis to take into account the lack of randomization in the study design. The analysis involved 858 patients with ICD or CRT-D. Of these, 401 (47%) were followed up via an SM approach, while 457 (53%) were assigned to RM. The rate of hospitalizations was 0.27/year in the SM group and 0.16/year in the RM group (risk reduction =0.59; P = 0.0004). In the non-adjusted analysis, the annual cost for each patient was €817 in the SM group and €604 in the RM group (P = 0.014). Propensity score analysis, in which 292 RM patients were matched with 292 SM patients, confirmed the results of the non-adjusted analysis (€872 in the SM group vs. €757 in the RM group; P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: There is a reduction in direct healthcare costs of RM for HF patients with ICDs, particularly CRT-D, compared with standard monitoring.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: http://clinicaltrials.gov/Identifier, NCT01723865.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth to Expand Community Health Nurse Education in Rural Guatemala: A Pilot Feasibility and Acceptability Evaluation.
Abstract: Telehealth education has the potential to serve as an important, low-cost method of expanding healthcare worker education and support, especially in rural settings of low- and middle-income countries. We describe an innovative educational strategy to strengthen a long-term health professional capacity building partnership between Guatemalan and US-based partners. In this pilot evaluation, community health nurses in rural Guatemala received customized, interactive education via telehealth from faculty at the supporting US-based institution. Program evaluation of this 10 lecture series demonstrated high levels of satisfaction among learners and instructors as well as knowledge gain by learners. An average of 5.5 learners and 2 instructors attended the 10 lectures and completed surveys using a Likert scale to rate statements regarding lecture content, technology, and personal connection. Positive statements about lecture content and the applicability to daily work had 98% or greater agreement as did statements regarding ease of technology and convenience. The learners agreed with feeling connected to the instructors 100% of the time, while instructors had 86.4% agreement with connection related statements. Instructors, joining at their respective work locations, rated convenience statements at 100% agreement. This evaluation also demonstrated effectiveness with an average 10.7% increase in pre- to posttest knowledge scores by learners. As the global health community considers efficiency in time, money, and our environment, telehealth education is a critical method to consider and develop for health worker education. Our pilot program evaluation shows that telehealth may be an effective method of delivering education to frontline health workers in rural Guatemala. While larger studies are needed to quantify the duration and benefits of specific knowledge gains and to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of the program, our initial pilot results are encouraging and show that a telehealth program between a US-based university and a rural community health program in a low- and middle-income country is both feasible and acceptable.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of videoconferencing for physical therapy in people with musculoskeletal conditions: A systematic review.
Abstract: Background Physical therapists are key players in the management of musculoskeletal conditions, which are common in rural and remote communities. There are few physical therapists in rural regions compared to potential need, so care is either not provided or must be sought in urban centers, requiring travel and time away from work and family to access services. Telerehabilitation strategies, such as real-time videoconferencing, are emerging as possible solutions to address shortages in rural physical therapy services. Objectives This review will: (1) determine the validity and the reliability of secure videoconferencing for physical therapy management of musculoskeletal conditions; (2) determine the health, system, and process outcomes when using secure videoconferencing for physical therapy management of musculoskeletal conditions. Methods A protocol-driven systematic review of four databases was carried out by two independent reviewers. Study criteria included English language articles from January 2003 to December 2016, on physical therapy management using secure videoconferencing, pertaining to adults 18-80 years with chronic musculoskeletal disorders. Randomized controlled trials, pre-experimental studies, and case-control studies were included. Quality analysis was performed utilizing standardized tools specific for the study designs. Results and conclusions Validity and reliability studies were identified as having high risk of bias. Intervention studies were of moderate quality, and found positive impact on health outcomes and satisfaction. Two studies evaluated costs, with evidence of cost savings in one study. More robust research is required to evaluate long-term effects of telerehabilitation for physical therapy management of musculoskeletal disorders, including cost-benefit analyses.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a fully self-guided internet-based intervention for sub-clinical social anxiety symptoms: Protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: DESIGN AND OBJECTIVE: This paper describes the protocol for a large-scale pragmatic, randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation to investigate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the self-directed E-Couch social anxiety module versus a waiting list control condition, for reducing sub-clinical social anxiety symptoms in the general population.
STUDY POPULATION: Community-based adults (aged 18+) with social anxiety symptoms that do not meet the criteria for social anxiety disorder recruited via a direct-to-consumer advertisement on national websites.
INTERVENTION AND CONTROL: Intervention is the self-guided E-Couch social anxiety module. Control group participants are placed on a waiting list to receive the intervention at the end of the trial. Both groups receive email and text message reminders.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome will be change in self-reported social anxiety score using the Social Phobia Inventory (SPIN). Secondary outcomes will be the changes in the following self-report measures: Brief Fear of Negative Evaluation scale (BFNE-S); depression (CES-D); mental wellbeing (SWEMWEBS); health status (SF36); use of health services; safety events; and adherence, retention, and attrition rates. All measures will be administered at baseline, 6 weeks, and 3, 6 and 12 months.
ANALYSIS: A mixed effects model will be used to analyse the effect of the intervention on the primary and secondary outcomes (intention to treat analysis). Secondary analyses will explore moderators and mediators of effect. A prospective economic evaluation, conducted from a NHS and social care perspective, will provide estimates of cost utility and cost-effectiveness. An interview study will be conducted with 20 participants to explore issues including acceptability, adherence, retention and attrition.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBERS: NCT02451878 and ISRCTN15819951.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Reviews Are in: A Qualitative Content Analysis of Consumer Perspectives on Apps for Bipolar Disorder.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The delivery of mobile health (mHealth) services is acceptable to mental health consumers. However, despite the benefits of accessibility, cost-effectiveness, anonymity, and ability to tailor content to individual needs, consumer engagement remains a hurdle for uptake and continued use. This may be unsurprising as few studies have examined app content from the consumer perspective or assessed consumer preferences for the content of apps for mental health management. An opportunity to examine consumer perspectives exists in using naturally generated data that is publically available in the Google Play and Apple app stores. Whereas commercial developers routinely use this data, to date there has been no in-depth evaluation within scientific research.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of our study was to explore what consumers consider useful content for mental health management apps, identify unmet needs, and understand user expectations of mental health apps within the context of apps for bipolar disorder.
METHODS: Publically available English language consumer reviews of 48 apps for bipolar disorder were used as data, providing a total of 2173 reviews. Review text was coded and analyzed using a team approach to qualitative content analysis. Results were presented in 2 forms: (1) a quantitative summary of the 9 major and minor themes and (2) a qualitative synthesis of key thematic findings.
RESULTS: The majority of reviews were for symptom monitoring apps (87.94%, 1911/2173). The qualitative content analysis revealed 5 main themes: (1) laudatory talk, comments regarding the app's benefits including helpfulness and successful design features (74.00% of reviews, 1608/2173); (2) unfavorable feedback, negative reviews largely concerning unmet needs, privacy and technical issues, and potential dangers of app use (25.54%, 555/2173); (3) conceptions of community, referring to both communities of users with mental ill-health accessed via the app and a community created among app users and developers (24.25%, 527/2173); (4) wishlist features, app features requested by users (17.53%, 381/2173); and (5) apps and therapy, app use within clinical care (10.58%, 230/2173). Four minor themes were also identified: (1) app cost, (2) privacy and data security, (3) comparisons with traditional monitoring, and (4) evidence-based mHealth.
CONCLUSIONS: Although mostly positive, the proportion of reviews containing wishlist requests indicates consumer needs are not adequately addressed by currently available disorder management apps. Consumers value content that is helpful, supportive, and easy to use, and they are integrating apps into their health management and clinical care without necessarily considering the evidence-base or clinical effectiveness of the tool. User expectations regarding developer responsiveness to their needs has implications for community-based participatory research and integrated knowledge translation. However, this expectation is incompatible with current mHealth funding structures.
Label Included: 0

Title: A systematic review of the factors that influence the quality and effectiveness of telesupervision for health professionals.
Abstract: Introduction Whilst telesupervision (clinical supervision undertaken using communication technology) is being used more frequently, there is limited information on what factors influence its effectiveness and quality. We undertook this systematic review to address this gap. Methods Eligible telesupervision studies were identified following targeted search of electronic databases and the grey literature. Data were synthesised thematically, resulting in development of core themes. Results We identified 286 papers for initial relevancy screening by title and abstract. The full text of 36 papers were then retrieved and assessed for further relevance. A total of 11 papers were included in the final analysis. We identified eight themes that contribute to effective and high-quality telesupervision: supervisee characteristics, supervisor characteristics, supervision characteristics, supervisory relationship, communication strategies, prior face-to-face contact, environmental factors and technological considerations. Conclusion From the available evidence, telesupervision can be a feasible and acceptable form of clinical supervision if set up well. Further studies with robust designs are required to strengthen the existing evidence on what makes telesupervision effective, as well as to examine its cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of home telemonitoring in chronic kidney disease patients at different stages by a pragmatic randomized controlled trial (eNephro): rationale and study design.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Home telemonitoring has developed considerably over recent years in chronic diseases in order to improve communication between healthcare professionals and patients and to promote early detection of deteriorating health status. In the nephrology setting, home telemonitoring has been evaluated in home dialysis patients but data are scarce concerning chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients before and after renal replacement therapy. The eNephro study is designed to assess the cost effectiveness, clinical/biological impact, and patient perception of a home telemonitoring for CKD patients. Our purpose is to present the rationale, design and organisational aspects of this study.
METHODS: eNephro is a pragmatic randomised controlled trial, comparing home telemonitoring versus usual care in three populations of CKD patients: stage 3B/4 (n = 320); stage 5D CKD on dialysis (n = 260); stage 5 T CKD treated with transplantation (n= 260). Five hospitals and three not-for-profit providers managing self-care dialysis situated in three administrative regions in France are participating. The trial began in December 2015, with a scheduled 12-month inclusion period and 12 months follow-up. Outcomes include clinical and biological data (e.g. blood pressure, haemoglobin) collected from patient records, perceived health status (e.g. health related quality of life) collected from self-administered questionnaires, and health expenditure data retrieved from the French health insurance database (SNIIRAM) using a probabilistic matching procedure.
DISCUSSION: The hypothesis is that home telemonitoring enables better control of clinical and biological parameters as well as improved perceived health status. This better control should limit emergency consultations and hospitalisations leading to decreased healthcare expenditure, compensating for the financial investment due to the telemedicine system.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study has been registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under NCT02082093 (date of registration: February 14, 2014).
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of telephone-based concussion management for combat-related mild traumatic brain injury.
Abstract: Introduction Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is an unfortunately common repercussion of military service in a combat zone. The CONTACT study tested an individualized telephone support intervention employing problem solving therapy (PST) for mTBI in soldiers recently returned from deployment. We sought to determine the cost effectiveness of this intervention from a military healthcare system perspective. Methods We conducted an intent-to-treat post-hoc analysis by building a decision analytic model that evaluated the choice between using PST or education only (EO). The model included cost-minimization and cost-effectiveness analyses. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated as the differences in costs of PST versus EO relative to the differences in the outcomes of participants. Results The PST intervention resulted in an annual per-enrolee cost of $1027 (95% CI: $836 to $1248), while EO costs were $32 (95% CI: $25 to $39), resulting in a net incremental cost of $996 per enrolee (95% CI: $806 to $1,217). The ICERs were $68,658/QALY based on EQ-5D (95% CI: -$463,535 to $596,661) and $49,284/QALY based on SF-6D (95% CI: $26,971 to $159,309). Estimates of treatment costs in a real-world setting were accompanied by substantially lower ICERs that are within accepted thresholds for willingness-to-pay. Discussion Although the intervention had short-term benefits sufficient to yield acceptable ICERs, there was no long-term effect of PST over EO observed in the study. Consequently, we suggest that future studies examine the use of low-cost approaches, such as booster relapse-prevention calls, that may lead to a sustained treatment benefit for this population.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluation of a Home-Based Age-Related Macular Degeneration Monitoring System.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Medicare recently approved coverage of home telemonitoring for early detection of incident choroidal neovascularization (CNV) among patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD), but no economic evaluation has yet assessed its cost-effectiveness and budgetary impact.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate a home-based daily visual-field monitoring system using simulation methods and to apply the findings of the Home Monitoring of the Eye study to the US population at high risk for wet-form AMD.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: In this economic analysis, an evaluation of the potential cost, cost-effectiveness, and government budgetary impact of adoption of a home-based daily visual-field monitoring system among eligible Medicare patients was performed. Effectiveness and visual outcomes data from the Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 Home Monitoring of the Eye study, treatment data from the Wills Eye Hospital Treat & Extend study, and AMD progression data from the Age-Related Eye Disease Study 1 were used to simulate the long-term effects of telemonitoring patients with CNV in one eye or large drusen and/or pigment abnormalities in both eyes. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analysis and an alternative scenario using the Treat & Extend study control group outcomes were used to examine uncertainty in these data and assumptions.
INTERVENTIONS: Home telemonitoring of patients with AMD for early detection of CNV vs usual care.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, net present value of lifetime societal costs, and 10-year nominal government expenditures.
RESULT: Telemonitoring of patients with existing unilateral CNV or multiple bilateral risk factors for CNV (large drusen and retinal pigment abnormalities) incurs $907 (95% CI, -$6302 to $2809) in net lifetime societal costs, costs $1312 (95% CI, $222-$2848) per patient during 10 years from the federal government's perspective, and results in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $35 663 (95% CI, cost savings to $235 613) per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Home telemonitoring of patients with AMD who are at risk for CNV was cost-effective compared with scheduled examinations alone. Monitoring patients with existing CNV in one eye is cost saving, but monitoring is generally not cost-effective among patients with low risk of CNV, including those with no or few risk factors. With Medicare coverage, monitoring incurs budgetary expenditures for the government but is cost-saving for patients at high risk of AMD. Monitoring could be cost saving to society if monitoring reduced the frequency of scheduled examinations or led to a reduction of one or more injections of ranibizumab.
Label Included: 0

Title: Application of short message service to control blood cholesterol: a field trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite recommendations, many middle-age adults neglect to check their blood cholesterol levels. Short message service (SMS, also known as texting) has been seldom studied for preventive education. We estimated how SMS can be a cost-effective method in encouraging people to check their blood cholesterol levels.
METHODS: In a field trial, 3600 cell phone users (age > 30) were randomly assigned to the intervention (N: 1200) and the control groups (N: 2400). An SMS was sent to the intervention group for five rounds every two weeks, which targeted the cognitive and affective learning and finally advised the blood cholesterol level to be checked, if not checked during the past twelve months. Two weeks after the last round, both groups were asked for the time/level of their latest blood cholesterol, family history of early cardiac death and having a family member with coronary heart disease (CHD), and to report their attitude about whether annual blood sampling is worth the cost and time to prevent CHD. Moreover, the intervention group was asked if they remembered the SMS content. The cost-effectiveness was evaluated by estimating the "number needed to treat" (NNT) and calculating the cost of sending SMS to that number of people.
RESULTS: In the intervention group, 629 individuals (72.0%) recalled the SMS content. The factors associated with cholesterol screening during the past two years were older age, diabetes, family history of coronary disease, higher education, female gender and being non-smoker. In both groups, women were significantly more aware of their blood cholesterol level (68.7% vs. 53.6%). The relative frequency of respondents who believed it was not worth checking their cholesterol annually was significantly lower in the intervention group (P < 0.001). The intervention group was significantly more likely to check its blood cholesterol levels (OR:1.22) after adjustment for age, diabetes, family history of CHD and smoking. The NNT was estimated ≈ 25 for the general population and ≈ 11 for those who received SMS and had a family member with CHD.
CONCLUSIONS: We would postulate that SMS could affect people's adherence to preventive programs. Relatives of patients admitted with a diagnosis of CHD should be prioritized for superior cost-effectiveness and logistical feasibility.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of patient and doctor perception toward the use of telemedicine in Apollo Tele Health Services, India.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Telemedicine incorporates electronic information and medical technology. It connects healthcare through vast distances which would benefit both patients and doctors. The aim of this questionnaire study was to evaluate the effects of telemedicine on patients and medical specialists.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted among 122 participants (71 patients and 51 doctors) on satisfaction in quality of service, cost-effectiveness, and problems encountered in healthcare provided by the telemedicine in Apollo Tele Health Services, Hyderabad, Telangana, India. The data for each group were calculated and compared.
RESULTS: About 80% patients and all the doctors reported their satisfaction on the quality of treatment given through telemedicine. Approximately, 90% of the participants found telemedicine cost-effective and 61% of the doctors found an increase in patient's inflow apart for their regular practice. Problems encountered in telemedicine were 47% in technical issues and 39% in time scheduling by doctors and 31% of patients were uncomfortable to face the camera, and 24% had technical issues.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study showed that telemedicine in healthcare could prove to be useful to patients in distant regions and to rural doctors in India. In the near future, telemedicine can be considered as an alternate to face to face patient care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical impact and value of workstation single sign-on.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: CHRISTUS Health began implementation of computer workstation single sign-on (SSO) in 2015. SSO technology utilizes a badge reader placed at each workstation where clinicians swipe or "tap" their identification badges.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of SSO implementation in reducing clinician time logging in to various clinical software programs, and in financial savings from migrating to a thin client that enabled replacement of traditional hard drive computer workstations.
METHODS: Following implementation of SSO, a total of 65,202 logins were sampled systematically during a 7day period among 2256 active clinical end users for time saved in 6 facilities when compared to pre-implementation. Dollar values were assigned to the time saved by 3 groups of clinical end users: physicians, nurses and ancillary service providers.
RESULTS: The reduction of total clinician login time over the 7day period showed a net gain of 168.3h per week of clinician time - 28.1h (2.3 shifts) per facility per week. Annualized, 1461.2h of mixed physician and nursing time is liberated per facility per annum (121.8 shifts of 12h per year). The annual dollar cost savings of this reduction of time expended logging in is $92,146 per hospital per annum and $1,658,745 per annum in the first phase implementation of 18 hospitals. Computer hardware equipment savings due to desktop virtualization increases annual savings to $2,333,745. Qualitative value contributions to clinician satisfaction, reduction in staff turnover, facilitation of adoption of EHR applications, and other benefits of SSO are discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: SSO had a positive impact on clinician efficiency and productivity in the 6 hospitals evaluated, and is an effective and cost-effective method to liberate clinician time from repetitive and time consuming logins to clinical software applications.
Label Included: 0

Title: A home program of strength training, movement strategy training and education did not prevent falls in people with Parkinson's disease: a randomised trial.
Abstract: QUESTIONS: For people with idiopathic Parkinson's disease, does a 6-week, comprehensive, home exercise program reduce falls and disability and improve health-related quality of life? Is the program cost-effective?
DESIGN: Randomised, controlled trial with concealed allocation and assessor blinding.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred and thirty-three community-dwelling adults with Parkinson's disease.
INTERVENTION: The experimental group completed a 6-week home program comprising progressive resistance strength training, movement strategy training and falls education. The control group completed 6 weeks of non-specific life skills training. Participants in both groups received weekly therapist-guided sessions for 6 consecutive weeks and a weekly self-directed home program.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the rate of falls, documented for the 12-month period immediately after therapy. Secondary outcomes were disability and health-related quality of life, assessed before and after intervention and at a 12-month follow-up.
RESULTS: A total of 2255 falls were reported by the 12-month follow-up. The proportion of fallers in the experimental and control groups was 61 and 72%, respectively, which was not statistically significantly different (RR=0.85, 95% CI 0.66 to 1.09). There was no significant between-group difference in the rate of falls (incidence rate ratio=1.58, 95% CI 0.73 to 3.43). A survival analysis of participant time to first fall did not show a significant between-group difference (log-rank test χ2=0.79, p=0.37). No significant between-group differences occurred for mobility, disability or quality of life. The mean cost of delivering the experimental intervention was AUD1596.
CONCLUSION: A home program of strength and movement strategy training and falls education does not prevent falls when applied at the dose used in this study. Arguably, the dosage of therapy was insufficient. Future trials need to explore further therapy content, repetitions and duration, in order to optimise outcomes and cost-effectiveness. [Morris ME, Taylor NF, Watts JJ, Evans A, Horne M, Kempster P, Danoudis M, McGinley J, Martin C, Menz HB (2017) A home program of strength training, movement strategy training and education did not prevent falls in people with Parkinson's disease: a randomised trial. Journal of Physiotherapy 63: 94-100].
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile radiography services in nursing homes: a systematic review of residents' and societal outcomes.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Demographic changes are leading to an ageing population in Europe, and predict an increase in the number of nursing home residents over the next 30 years. Nursing home residents need specialised healthcare services such as radiology due to both chronic and acute illnesses. Mobile radiography, x-ray examinations performed in the nursing homes, may be a good way of providing services to this population. The aim of this systematic review was to identify the outcomes of mobile radiography services for nursing home residents and society.
METHODS: A systematic review based on searches in the Medline, Cochrane, PubMed, Embase and Svemed + databases was performed. Titles and abstracts were screened according to a predefined set of inclusion criteria: empirical studies in the geriatric population, and reports of mobile radiography services in a clinical setting. All publications were quality appraised using MMAT or CASP appraisal tools. Data were extracted using a summary table and results were narratively synthesised.
RESULTS: Ten publications were included. Three overarching outcomes were identified: 1) reduced number of hospitalisations and outpatient examinations or treatments, 2) reduced number of transfers between nursing homes and hospitals and 3) increased access to x-ray examinations. These outcomes were interlinked with the more specific outcomes for residents and society reported in the literature. For residents there was a reduction in burdensome transfers and waiting time and adequate treatment and care increased. For society, released resources could be used more efficiently, and overall costs were reduced substantially.
CONCLUSIONS: This review indicates that mobile radiography services for nursing home residents in the western world are of comparable quality to hospital-based examinations and have clear potential benefits. Mobile radiography reduced transfers to and from hospital, increased the number of examinations carried out and facilitated timely diagnosis and access to treatments. Further research is needed to formally evaluate potential improvements in care quality and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Design of the Lifestyle Interventions for severe mentally ill Outpatients in the Netherlands (LION) trial; a cluster randomised controlled study of a multidimensional web tool intervention to improve cardiometabolic health in patients with severe mental illness.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The cardiometabolic health of persons with a severe mental illness (SMI) is alarming with obesity rates of 45-55% and diabetes type 2 rates of 10-15%. Unhealthy lifestyle behaviours play a large role in this. Despite the multidisciplinary guideline for SMI patients recommending to monitor and address patients' lifestyle, most mental health care professionals have limited lifestyle-related knowledge and skills, and (lifestyle) treatment protocols are lacking. Evidence-based practical lifestyle tools may support both patients and staff in improving patients' lifestyle. This paper describes the Lifestyle Interventions for severe mentally ill Outpatients in the Netherlands (LION) trial, to investigate whether a multidimensional lifestyle intervention using a web tool can be effective in improving cardiometabolic health in SMI patients.
METHODS/DESIGN: The LION study is a 12-month pragmatic single-blind multi-site cluster randomised controlled trial. 21 Flexible Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) teams and eight sheltered living teams of five mental health organizations in the Netherlands are invited to participate. Per team, nurses are trained in motivational interviewing and use of the multidimensional web tool, covering lifestyle behaviour awareness, lifestyle knowledge, motivation and goal setting. Nurses coach patients to change their lifestyle using the web tool, motivational interviewing and stages-of-change techniques during biweekly sessions in a) assessing current lifestyle behaviour using the traffic light method (healthy behaviours colour green, unhealthy behaviours colour red), b) creating a lifestyle plan with maximum three attainable lifestyle goals and c) discussing the lifestyle plan regularly. The study population is SMI patients and statistical inference is on patient level using multilevel analyses. Primary outcome is waist circumference and other cardiometabolic risk factors after six and twelve months intervention, which are measured as part of routine outcome monitoring using standard protocols. Secondary outcomes include depressive and negative symptoms, cost-effectiveness, and barriers and facilitators in intervention implementation.
DISCUSSION: Adequate health care should target both mental health and lifestyle behaviours in SMI patients. This trial contributes by studying a 12-month multidimensional lifestyle intervention as a potential evidence based (nursing) tool for targeting multiple lifestyle behaviours in SMI patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Nederlands Trialregister NTR3765 (trialregister.nl; registered 21 December 2012).
Label Included: 0

Title: Incidence, recurrence and cost of hyperglycaemic crises requiring emergency treatment in Andalusia, Spain.
Abstract: AIMS: Hyperglycaemic crises (diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperosmolar hyperglycaemic state) are medical emergencies in people with diabetes. We aimed to determine their incidence, recurrence and economic impact.
METHODS: An observational study of hyperglycaemic crises cases using the database maintained by the out-of-hospital emergency service, the Healthcare Emergency Public Service (EPES) during 2012. The EPES provides emergency medical services to the total population of Andalusia, Spain (8.5 million inhabitants) and records data on the incidence, resource utilization and cost of out-of-hospital medical care. Direct costs were estimated using public prices for health services updated to 2012.
RESULTS: Among 1 137 738 emergency calls requesting medical assistance, 3157 were diagnosed with hyperglycaemic crises by an emergency coordinator, representing 2.9 cases per 1000 persons with diabetes [95% confidence intervals (CI) 2.8 to 3.0]. The incidence of diabetic ketoacidosis was 2.5 cases per 1000 persons with diabetes (95% CI 2.4 to 2.6) and the incidence of hyperosmolar hyperglycaemic state was 0.4 cases per 1000 persons with diabetes (95% CI 0.4 to 0.5). In total, 17.7% (n = 440) of people had one or more hyperglycaemic crisis. The estimated total direct cost was €4 662 151, with a mean direct cost per episode of €1476.8 ± 217.8.
CONCLUSIONS: Hyperglycaemic crises require high resource utilization of emergency medical services and have a significant economic impact on the health system.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness of telemedicine in the management of chronic heart disease - a systematic review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this systematic review is to assess the effectiveness of telemedicine in managing chronic heart disease patients concerning improvement in varied health attributes.
DESIGN: This review follows the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) standard.
SETTING: We adopted a logical search process used in two main research databases, the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature and PubMed (MEDLINE). Four reviewers meticulously screened 151 abstracts to determine relevancy and significance to our research objectives. The final sample in the literature review consisted of 20 articles.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We looked for improved medical outcomes as the main outcome measure.
RESULTS: Our results indicated that telemedicine is highly associated with the reduction in hospitalisations and readmissions (9 of 20 articles, 45%). The other significant attributes most commonly encountered were improved mortality and cost-effectiveness (both 40%) and improved health outcomes (35%). Patient satisfaction occurred the least in the literature, mentioned in only 2 of 20 articles (10%). There was no significant mention of an increase in patient satisfaction because of telemedicine.
CONCLUSIONS: We concluded that telemedicine is considered to be effective in quality measures such as readmissions, moderately effective in health outcomes, only marginally effective in customer satisfaction. Telemedicine shows promise on an alternative modality of care for cardiovascular disease, but additional exploration should continue to quantify the quality measures.
Label Included: 0

Title: Wireless Teleophthalmology: A Novel, Low-Cost, Flexible Network Architecture and Its Performance Evaluation for Remote Eye Care Solutions.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: This article proposes a novel, cost-effective, flexible, and easy-to-deploy wireless teleophthalmology network architecture and performance evaluation for its potential use in remote areas. This study has used practical telecommunication standards, which is widely deployed throughout India.
METHODS: In the proposed scenario, patient's eye images are obtained using a specified imaging modality, and then sent to a server at the primary eye care centre (PECC) using ZigBee a short-range wireless network. It is linked to the main server at the base eye hospital (BEH) through a GSM/UMTS (3G)/WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access) network. After diagnostic evaluation of the eye image using various automated diagnostic software, data are sent to a physician in an urban center for further validation, which is connected through GSM/UMTS (3G)/WiMAX network. Performance evaluation of these wireless networks is carried out for their use in teleophthalmology application based on network parameters, namely throughput, average end-to-end delay, and average jitter. It is found that end-to-end delay is the most critical network parameter affecting overall quality of service (QoS) of the proposed teleophthalmology network.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate that WiMAX is the most suitable network among the considered networks for connecting PECC nodes with BEH main server, and further connecting main server with a doctor on the move. It is also deduced that for a given set of QoS parameters, WiMAX supports a load capacity of 22,000 packets at center nodes and the main server and it performs well even when the mobility speed of doctor exceeds 200 KPH.
Label Included: 0

Title: Active Use of Electronic Health Records (EHRs) and Personal Health Records (PHRs) for Epidemiologic Research: Sample Representativeness and Nonresponse Bias in a Study of Women During Pregnancy.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: With the growing use of electronic medical records, electronic health records (EHRs), and personal health records (PHRs) for health care delivery, new opportunities have arisen for population health researchers. Our objective was to characterize PHR users and examine sample representativeness and nonresponse bias in a study of pregnant women recruited via the PHR.
DESIGN: Demographic characteristics were examined for PHR users and nonusers. Enrolled study participants (responders, n=187) were then compared with nonresponders and a representative sample of the target population.
RESULTS: PHR patient portal users (34 percent of eligible persons) were older and more likely to be White, have private health insurance, and develop gestational diabetes than nonusers. Of eligible persons (all PHR users), 11 percent (187/1,713) completed a self-administered PHR based questionnaire. Participants in the research study were more likely to be non-Hispanic White (90 percent versus 79 percent) and married (85 percent versus 77 percent), and were less likely to be Non-Hispanic Black (3 percent versus 12 percent) or Hispanic (3 percent versus 6 percent). Responders and nonresponders were similar regarding age distribution, employment status, and health insurance status. Demographic characteristics were similar between responders and nonresponders.
DISCUSSION: Demographic characteristics of the study population differed from the general population, consistent with patterns seen in traditional population-based studies. The PHR may be an efficient method for recruiting and conducting observational research with additional benefits of efficiency and cost-cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost and mortality impact of an algorithm-driven sepsis prediction system.
Abstract: AIMS: To compute the financial and mortality impact of InSight, an algorithm-driven biomarker, which forecasts the onset of sepsis with minimal use of electronic health record data.
METHODS: This study compares InSight with existing sepsis screening tools and computes the differential life and cost savings associated with its use in the inpatient setting. To do so, mortality reduction is obtained from an increase in the number of sepsis cases correctly identified by InSight. Early sepsis detection by InSight is also associated with a reduction in length-of-stay, from which cost savings are directly computed.
RESULTS: InSight identifies more true positive cases of severe sepsis, with fewer false alarms, than comparable methods. For an individual ICU with 50 beds, for example, it is determined that InSight annually saves 75 additional lives and reduces sepsis-related costs by $560,000.
LIMITATIONS: InSight performance results are derived from analysis of a single-center cohort. Mortality reduction results rely on a simplified use case, which fixes prediction times at 0, 1, and 2 h before sepsis onset, likely leading to under-estimates of lives saved. The corresponding cost reduction numbers are based on national averages for daily patient length-of-stay cost.
CONCLUSIONS: InSight has the potential to reduce sepsis-related deaths and to lead to substantial cost savings for healthcare facilities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Randomized Trial of a Peer-Led, Telephone-Based Empowerment Intervention for Persons With Chronic Spinal Cord Injury Improves Health Self-Management.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of "My Care My Call" (MCMC), a peer-led, telephone-based health self-management intervention in adults with chronic spinal cord injury (SCI).
DESIGN: Single-blinded randomized controlled trial.
SETTING: General community.
PARTICIPANTS: Convenience sample of adults with SCI (N=84; mean time post-SCI, 9.9y; mean age, 46y; 73.8% men; 44% with paraplegia; 58% white).
INTERVENTIONS: Trained peer health coaches applied the person-centered health self-management intervention with 42 experimental subjects over 6 months on a tapered call schedule. The 42 control subjects received usual care. Both groups received the MCMC Resource Guide.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcome-health self-management as measured by the Patient Activation Measure (PAM). Secondary outcomes-global ratings of service/resource use, health-related quality of life, and quality of primary care.
RESULTS: Intervention participants averaged 12 calls over 6 months (averaging 21.8min each), with distinct variation. At 6 months, intervention participants reported a significantly greater change in PAM scores (6mo: estimate, 7.029; 95% confidence interval, .1018-13.956; P=.0468) compared with controls, with a trend toward significance at 4 months. At 6 months, intervention participants reported a significantly greater decrease in social/role activity limitations (estimate, -.443; P=.0389), greater life satisfaction (estimate, 1.0091; P=.0522), greater services/resources awareness (estimate, 1.678; P=.0253), greater overall service use (estimate, 1.069; P=.0240), and a greater number of services used (estimate, 1.542; P=.0077). Subgroups most impacted by MCMC on PAM change scores included the following: high social support, white persons, men, 1 to 6 years postinjury, and tetraplegic.
CONCLUSIONS: This trial demonstrates that the MCMC peer-led, health self-management intervention achieved a positive impact on self-management to prevent secondary conditions in adults with SCI. These results warrant a larger, multisite trial of its efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Virtual fracture clinic management of fifth metatarsal, including Jones', fractures is safe and cost-effective.
Abstract: Virtual clinics have been shown to be safe and cost-effective in many specialties, yet barriers exist to their implementation in orthopaedics. The aims of this study were to look at whether the management of 5th metatarsal fractures using a virtual fracture clinic model is safe, cost effective and avoids adverse outcomes whilst being acceptable to patients using the service. All patients with a fifth metatarsal fracture between September 2013 and September 2015 had a standardised management plan initiated (blackboot, full weightbearing) in the emergency department (ED). 663 patients met inclusion criteria, 251 (37.5%) Type 1, 111 (17%) Type 2 (Jones'), 281 (42%) Type 3 or distal, 20 (3%) were misdiagnosed, and 4 (0.5%) patient's images were unavailable. 499 (75%) patients were discharged immediately, 47 (7%) had further imaging, 114 (17%) had either ESP or consultant clinic review, and 3 (<1%) transferred their care privately. The average number of clinic visits per patient was 0.17. At a conservative estimate of 1.3 visits per patient in a traditional pathway this saved 779 clinic visits with a cost saving of £60,000 on clinic visits alone. There were 8 (7%) asymptomatic non-unions in Type 2 (Jones') fractures. One patient required surgical intervention. Fifth metatarsal fractures have excellent outcomes with conservative management yet traditionally have required clinic visits to confirm the diagnosis and explain the management and prognosis. Our study supports the use of a virtual fracture clinic model that is standardised, initiated in ED, that is both safe and cost-effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: The contributions of family care-givers at end of life: A national post-bereavement census survey of cancer carers' hours of care and expenditures.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Family members provide vital care at end of life, enabling patients to remain at home. Such informal care contributes significantly to the economy while supporting patients' preferences and government policy. However, the value of care-givers' contributions is often underestimated or overlooked in evaluations. Without information on the activities and expenditures involved in informal care-giving, it is impossible to provide an accurate assessment of carers' contribution to end-of-life care.
AIM: The aim of this study was to investigate the contributions and expenditure of informal, family care-giving in end-of-life cancer care.
DESIGN: A national census survey of English cancer carers was conducted. Survey packs were mailed to 5271 people who registered the death of a relative to cancer during 1-16 May 2015. Data were collected on decedents' health and situation, care support given, financial expenditure resulting from care, carer well-being and general background information.
RESULTS: In all, 1504 completed surveys were returned (28.5%). Over 90% of respondents reported spending time on care-giving in the last 3 months of the decedent's life, contributing a median 69 h 30 min of care-giving each week. Those who reported details of expenditure (72.5%) spent a median £370 in the last 3 months of the decedent's life.
CONCLUSION: Carers contribute a great deal of time and money for day-to-day support and care of patients. This study has yielded a unique, population-level data set of end-of-life care-giving and future analyses will provide estimates of the economic value of family care-givers' contributions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home Blood Pressure Telemonitoring: Rationale for Use, Required Elements, and Barriers to Implementation in Canada.
Abstract: Contemporary hypertension guidelines strongly endorse the use of home blood pressure (BP) monitoring for hypertension diagnosis and management. However, barriers exist that prevent optimal use of home BP measurements. Patients might not follow the recommended home BP measurement protocol, might not take the required number of readings, and/or might report only selected readings to their providers. Providers might not calculate the mean (used for clinical decision-making) and/or incorporate home BP measurements into the medical record. Use of home BP telemonitoring, defined as the process by which home BP readings are securely teletransmitted and summarized within a health care portal or electronic medical record for provider use, might overcome these barriers. Telemonitoring, especially when combined with protocolized case management, leads to statistically significant and clinically important BP reductions, and improvements in overall BP control. Despite evidence supporting its use, home BP telemonitoring is not widely used in Canada. Barriers to adoption can be classified as structural and financial. Although technological advancements have made telemonitoring highly feasible, infrastructure is lacking, and implementation remains a challenge; this is especially true with respect to creating simple and cost-effective systems that are user-friendly and acceptable to patients as well as to providers. Ensuring data security is crucial to successful implementation, as is developing appropriate reimbursement models for providers. If these barriers can be overcome, home BP telemonitoring has the potential to make care provision easier and more convenient for patients and providers, while improving BP control in Canadians with hypertension.
Label Included: 0

Title: Systems scenarios: a tool for facilitating the socio-technical design of work systems.
Abstract: The socio-technical systems approach to design is well documented. Recognising the benefits of this approach, organisations are increasingly trying to work with systems, rather than their component parts. However, few tools attempt to analyse the complexity inherent in such systems, in ways that generate useful, practical outputs. In this paper, we outline the 'System Scenarios Tool' (SST), which is a novel, applied methodology that can be used by designers, end-users, consultants or researchers to help design or re-design work systems. The paper introduces the SST using examples of its application, and describes the potential benefits of its use, before reflecting on its limitations. Finally, we discuss potential opportunities for the tool, and describe sets of circumstances in which it might be used. Practitioner Summary: The paper presents a novel, applied methodological tool, named the 'Systems Scenarios Tool'. We believe this tool can be used as a point of reference by designers, end-users, consultants or researchers, to help design or re-design work systems. Included in the paper are two worked examples, demonstrating the tool's application.
Label Included: 0

Title: Electronic case report forms and electronic data capture within clinical trials and pharmacoepidemiology.
Abstract: AIMS: Researchers in clinical and pharmacoepidemiology fields have adopted information technology (IT) and electronic data capture, but these remain underused despite the benefits. This review discusses electronic case report forms and electronic data capture, specifically within pharmacoepidemiology and clinical research.
METHODS: The review used PubMed and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers library. Search terms used were agreed by the authors and documented. PubMed is medical and health based, whereas Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers is technology based. The review focuses on electronic case report forms and electronic data capture, but briefly considers other relevant topics; consent, ethics and security.
RESULTS: There were 1126 papers found using the search terms. Manual filtering and reviewing of abstracts further condensed this number to 136 relevant manuscripts. The papers were further categorized: 17 contained study data; 40 observational data; 27 anecdotal data; 47 covering methodology or design of systems; one case study; one literature review; two feasibility studies; and one cost analysis.
CONCLUSION: Electronic case report forms, electronic data capture and IT in general are viewed with enthusiasm and are seen as a cost-effective means of improving research efficiency, educating participants and improving trial recruitment, provided concerns about how data will be protected from misuse can be addressed. Clear operational guidelines and best practises are key for healthcare providers, and researchers adopting IT, and further work is needed on improving integration of new technologies with current systems. A robust method of evaluation for technical innovation is required.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Remote Cardiac Monitoring With the CardioMEMS Heart Failure System.
Abstract: Heart failure (HF) is a leading cause of cardiovascular mortality in the United States and presents a substantial economic burden. A recently approved implantable wireless pulmonary artery pressure remote monitor, the CardioMEMS HF System, has been shown to be effective in reducing hospitalizations among New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III HF patients. The objective of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of this remote monitoring technology compared to standard of care treatment for HF. A Markov cohort model relying on the CHAMPION (CardioMEMS Heart Sensor Allows Monitoring of Pressure to Improve Outcomes in NYHA Class III Heart Failure Patients) clinical trial for mortality and hospitalization data, published sources for cost data, and a mix of CHAMPION data and published sources for utility data, was developed. The model compares outcomes over 5 years for implanted vs standard of care patients, allowing patients to accrue costs and utilities while they remain alive. Sensitivity analyses explored uncertainty in input parameters. The CardioMEMS HF System was found to be cost-effective, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $44,832 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Sensitivity analysis found the model was sensitive to the device cost and to whether mortality benefits were sustained, although there were no scenarios in which the cost/QALY exceeded $100,000. Compared with standard of care, the CardioMEMS HF System was cost-effective when leveraging trial data to populate the model.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating the effectiveness of different approaches to home support for people in later stage dementia: a protocol for an observational study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dementia is a major health problem with a growing number of people affected by the condition, both directly and indirectly through caring for someone with dementia. Many live at home but little is known about the range and intensity of the support they receive. Previous studies have mainly reported on discrete services within a single geographical area. This paper presents a protocol for study of different services across several sites in England. The aim is to explore the presence, effects, and cost-effectiveness of approaches to home support for people in later stage dementia and their carers.
METHODS: This is a prospective observational study employing mixed methods. At least 300 participants (people with dementia and their carers) from geographical areas with demonstrably different ranges of services available for people with dementia will be selected. Within each area, participants will be recruited from a range of services. Participants will be interviewed on two occasions and data will be collected on their characteristics and circumstances, quality of life, carer health and burden, and informal and formal support for the person with dementia. The structured interviews will also collect qualitative data to explore the perceptions of older people and carers.
CONCLUSIONS: This national study will explore the components of appropriate and effective home support for people with late stage dementia and their carers. It aims to inform commissioners and service providers across health and social care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of a home vacuum-assisted closure device in the burn population is both cost-effective and efficacious.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The vacuum assisted closure device (VAC) improves wound-healing when utilized as a bolster to secure split thickness skin grafts (STSG). Patients typically remain hospitalized for VAC therapy; however, home VACs (hVAC) are now available. Limited studies examine burns treated with hVAC as a STSG bolster.
METHOD: A retrospective study of records from an ABA verified regional burn center was conducted over 23 months. Patients included STSGs for burn. Data points included demographics, burn mechanism and location, graft characteristics, hospital length of stay (LOS), and time to heal.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Fifty patients were included, with average age of 39 years (range <1-83years). Average burn TBSA was 1.27±1.42 (range 0.05-8.18). Grafted area average was 102.9±128.1cm2. The most commonly treated areas were the leg/foot, thigh, and torso (53%, 16%, and 16%, respectively). Average LOS was 1.1±1.2 days. Mean graft-take was 99.2±2.8% with one patient undergoing repeat STSG. Average post-operative time to heal was 16±6 days. A 5-day inpatient stay with a VAC costs an average of $34,635, compared to $9134 for an hVAC over the same period.
CONCLUSIONS: The hVAC is a cost-effective STSG bolster in the burn population for appropriate candidates. Excellent graft-take and low morbidity rates imply that this is an efficacious alternative for STSG bolster.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telephone-supported computerised cognitive-behavioural therapy: REEACT-2 large-scale pragmatic randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BackgroundComputerised cognitive-behavioural therapy (cCBT) for depression has the potential to be efficient therapy but engagement is poor in primary care trials.AimsWe tested the benefits of adding telephone support to cCBT.MethodWe compared telephone-facilitated cCBT (MoodGYM) (n = 187) to minimally supported cCBT (MoodGYM) (n = 182) in a pragmatic randomised trial (trial registration: ISRCTN55310481). Outcomes were depression severity (Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-9), anxiety (Generalized Anxiety Disorder Questionnaire (GAD)-7) and somatoform complaints (PHQ-15) at 4 and 12 months.ResultsUse of cCBT increased by a factor of between 1.5 and 2 with telephone facilitation. At 4 months PHQ-9 scores were 1.9 points lower (95% CI 0.5-3.3) for telephone-supported cCBT. At 12 months, the results were no longer statistically significant (0.9 PHQ-9 points, 95% CI -0.5 to 2.3). There was improvement in anxiety scores and for somatic complaints.ConclusionsTelephone facilitation of cCBT improves engagement and expedites depression improvement. The effect was small to moderate and comparable with other low-intensity psychological interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Expanding Local Cancer Clinical Trial Options: Analysis of the Economic Impact of the Midwest Cancer Alliance in Kansas.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Patients benefit from receiving cancer treatment closer to home when possible and at high-volume regional centers when specialized care is required. The purpose of this analysis was to estimate the economic impact of retaining more patients in-state for cancer clinical trials and care, which might offset some of the costs of establishing broader cancer trial and treatment networks.
METHOD: Kansas Cancer Registry data were used to estimate the number of patients retained in-state for cancer care following the expansion of local cancer clinical trial options through the Midwest Cancer Alliance based at the University of Kansas Medical Center. The 2014 economic impact of this enhanced local clinical trial network was estimated in four parts: Medical spending was estimated on the basis of National Cancer Institute cost-of-care estimates. Household travel cost savings were estimated as the difference between in-state and out-of-state travel costs. Trial-related grant income was calculated from administrative records. Indirect and induced economic benefits to the state were estimated using an economic impact model.
RESULTS: The authors estimated that the enhanced local cancer clinical trial network resulted in approximately $6.9 million in additional economic activity in the state in 2014, or $362,000 per patient retained in-state. This estimate includes $3.6 million in direct spending and $3.3 million in indirect economic activity. The enhanced trial network also resulted in 45 additional jobs.
CONCLUSIONS: Retaining patients in-state for cancer care and clinical trial participation allows patients to remain closer to home for care and enhances the state economy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Analysis and comparison of the cost-effectiveness of statins according to the baseline low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level in Korea.
Abstract: WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: There are a few Korean studies on the economics of statins based on reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) data from other countries. This study aimed to analyse and compare the cost-effectiveness of statins according to the baseline LDL-C level in Korea.
METHODS: Between January 2009 and December 2015, the data of patients who were prescribed statins for the first time were extracted from electronic medical records. We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) based on the LDL-C reduction rate (CEA-RR) and target achievement rate.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Among high-intensity statins, the CEA-RR value of rosuvastatin (20 mg) was significantly lower than that of atorvastatin (40 mg) at all baseline LDL-C levels, except levels of 160-189 mg/dL. Additionally, at baseline LDL-C levels of 130-159 mg/dL, the CEA-RR value of rosuvastatin (20 mg) was three times lower than that of atorvastatin (40 mg) (9·1 ± 2·5 $/% vs. 31·7 ± 15·0 $/%, P < 0·001). Among moderate-to-low-intensity statins, rosuvastatin (5 mg) showed the lowest CEA-RR value (4·0 ± 0·6 $/%), and the value significantly increased for pitavastatin (2 mg) (8·0 ± 0·6 $/%), atorvastatin (10 mg) (9·5 ± 0·5 $/%), simvastatin (10·8 ± 1·1 $/%) and pravastatin (40 mg) (11·5 ± 0·9 $/%) in order (P < 0·0001). On changing from atorvastatin (10 mg) to atorvastatin (20 mg), the additional yearly cost was 16·0 and additional CEA-RR value was 2·74 $/%. On the other hand, on changing from atorvastatin (10 mg) to rosuvastatin (10 mg), the additional yearly cost was -16·3 and additional CEA-RR value was -1·8 $/%.
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: We successfully compared the cost-effectiveness of statins according to the baseline LDL-C level in Korea. It is expected that our findings will help clinical decision-making with regard to statin prescription, and this will help reduce national medical expenditure.
Label Included: 0

Title: Supporting the Delivery of Total Knee Replacements Care for Both Patients and Their Clinicians With a Mobile App and Web-Based Tool: Randomized Controlled Trial Protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Total knee replacement (TKR) surgeries have increased in recent years. Exercise programs and other interventions following surgery can facilitate the recovery process. With limited clinician contact time, patients with TKR have a substantial burden of self-management and limited communication with their care team, thus often fail to implement an effective rehabilitation plan.
OBJECTIVE: We have developed a digital orthopedic rehabilitation platform that comprises a mobile phone app, wearable activity tracker, and clinical Web portal in order to engage patients with self-management tasks for surgical preparation and recovery, thus addressing the challenges of adherence to and completion of TKR rehabilitation. The study will determine the efficacy of the TKR platform in delivering information and assistance to patients in their preparation and recovery from TKR surgery and a Web portal for clinician care teams (ie, surgeons and physiotherapists) to remotely support and monitor patient progress.
METHODS: The study will evaluate the TKR platform through a randomized controlled trial conducted at multiple sites (N=5) in a number of states in Australia with 320 patients undergoing TKR surgery; the trial will run for 13 months for each patient. Participants will be randomized to either a control group or an intervention group, both receiving usual care as provided by their hospital. The intervention group will receive the app and wearable activity tracker. Participants will be assessed at 4 different time points: 4 weeks before surgery, immediately before surgery, 12 weeks after surgery, and 52 weeks after surgery. The primary outcome measure is the Oxford Knee Score. Secondary outcome measures include quality of life (Short-Form Health Survey); depression, anxiety, and stress (Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scales); self-motivation; self-determination; self-efficacy; and the level of satisfaction with the knee surgery and care delivery. The study will also collect quantitative usage data related to all components (app, activity tracker, and Web portal) of the TKR platform and qualitative data on the perceptions of the platform as a tool for patients, carers, and clinicians. Finally, an economic evaluation of the impact of the platform will be conducted.
RESULTS: Development of the TKR platform has been completed and deployed for trial. The research protocol is approved by 2 human research ethics committees in Australia. A total of 5 hospitals in Australia (2 in New South Wales, 2 in Queensland, and 1 in South Australia) are expected to participate in the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: The TKR platform is designed to provide flexibility in care delivery and increased engagement with rehabilitation services. This trial will investigate the clinical and behavioral efficacy of the app and impact of the TKR platform in terms of service satisfaction, acceptance, and economic benefits of the provision of digital services.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR) ACTRN12616000504415; https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=370536 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6oKES0Gp1).
Label Included: 0

Title: The cost-effectiveness of a web-based multimodal therapy for unilateral cerebral palsy: the Mitii randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: AIM: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of the Mitii training system for improvements in upper limb function for children with unilateral cerebral palsy (CP). Mitii is a web-based programme delivered at home with set-up and monitoring by therapists.
METHOD: A randomized controlled trial was conducted comparing the Mitii training programme to usual care. The Assessment of Motor and Process Skills (AMPS) and Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM) were collected for each child at baseline and 20 weeks. Responders to training were characterized as those who met a minimally important difference on either the AMPS (0.3 logits) or COPM (2 points). Costs of the intervention were calculated by quantifying the equipment and staff cost. A cost per responder was calculated for each of the outcome measures.
RESULTS: A total of 102 participants (52 males, 50 females) were included in the analysis. There were significantly more responders in the training group on both the AMPS motor and process scales and the COPM performance and satisfaction scales. The cost per responder for the Mitii programme ranged from AU$3078 to AU$4191 depending on the scale used.
INTERPRETATION: The cost of delivering the Mitii training system is modest relative to the improvements in function.
Label Included: 0

Title: Closing the False Divide: Sustainable Approaches to Integrating Mental Health Services into Primary Care.
Abstract: Mental disorders account for 25% of all health-related disability worldwide. More patients receive treatment for mental disorders in the primary care sector than in the mental health specialty setting. However, brief visits, inadequate reimbursement, deficits in primary care provider (PCP) training, and competing demands often limit the capacity of the PCP to produce optimal outcomes in patients with common mental disorders. More than 80 randomized trials have shown the benefits of collaborative care (CC) models for improving outcomes of patients with depression and anxiety. Six key components of CC include a population-based approach, measurement-based care, treatment to target strategy, care management, supervision by a mental health professional (MHP), and brief psychological therapies. Multiple trials have also shown that CC for depression is equally or more cost-effective than many of the current treatments for medical disorders. Factors that may facilitate the implementation of CC include a more favorable alignment of medical and mental health services in accountable care organizations and patient-centered medical homes; greater use of telecare as well as automated outcome monitoring; identification of patients who might benefit most from CC; and systematic training of both PCPs and MHPs in integrated team-based care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of a guided and unguided internet-based CBT intervention for major depression: Results from a multi-center, three-armed randomized controlled trial conducted in primary care.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: Depression is one of the most common mental disorders and will become one of the leading causes of disability in the world. Internet-based CBT programs for depression have been classified as "well established" following the American Psychological Association criteria for empirically supported treatments. The aim of this study is to analyze the cost effectiveness at 12-month follow-up of the Internet-based CBT program "Smiling is fun" with (LITG) and without psychotherapist support (TSG) compared to usual care. The perspective used in our analysis is societal. A sample of 296 depressed patients (mean age of 43.04 years; 76% female; BDI-II mean score = 22.37) from primary care services in four Spanish regions were randomized in the RCT. The complete case and intention-to-treat (ITT) perspectives were used for the analyses. The results demonstrated that both Internet-based CBT interventions exhibited cost utility and cost effectiveness compared with a control group. The complete case analyses revealed an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of €-169.50 and an incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) of €-11389.66 for the TSG group and an ICER of €-104.63 and an ICUR of €-6380.86 for the LITG group. The ITT analyses found an ICER of €-98.37 and an ICUR of €-5160.40 for the TSG group and an ICER of €-9.91 and an ICUR of €496.72 for the LITG group. In summary, the results of this study indicate that the two Internet-based CBT interventions are appropriate from both economic and clinical perspectives for depressed patients in the Spanish primary care system. These interventions not only help patients to improve clinically but also generate societal savings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov NCT01611818.
Label Included: 1

Title: Patients give us thumbs up for telehealth…but are we convinced?
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of telerehabilitation programme following surgery in shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS): study protocol for a randomized controlled non-inferiority trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Shoulder pain is common in society, with high prevalence in the general population. Shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS) is the most frequent cause. Patients suffer pain, muscle weakness and loss of movement in the affected joint. Initial treatment is predominantly conservative. The surgical option has high success rates and is often used when conservative strategy fails. Traditional physiotherapy and post-operative exercises are needed for the recovery of joint range, muscle strength, stability and functionality. Telerehabilitation programmes have shown positive results in some orthopaedic conditions after surgery. Customized telerehabilitation intervention programmes should be developed to recover shoulder function after SIS surgery. The objective of this study is to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of a telerehabilitation intervention compared with usual care in patients after subacromial decompression surgery.
METHODS: We will compare an intervention group receiving videoconferences and a telerehabilitation programme to a control group receiving traditional physiotherapy intervention in a single-blind, randomized controlled non-inferiority trial study design.
DISCUSSION: Through this study, we will further develop our preliminary data set and practical experience with the telerehabilitation programmes to evaluate their effectiveness and compare this with traditional intervention. We will also explore patient satisfaction and cost-effectiveness. Patient enrolment is ongoing.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02909920 . 14 September 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile stroke units for prehospital thrombolysis, triage, and beyond: benefits and challenges.
Abstract: In acute stroke management, time is brain. Bringing swift treatment to the patient, instead of the conventional approach of awaiting the patient's arrival at the hospital for treatment, is a potential strategy to improve clinical outcomes after stroke. This strategy is based on the use of an ambulance (mobile stroke unit) equipped with an imaging system, a point-of-care laboratory, a telemedicine connection to the hospital, and appropriate medication. Studies of prehospital stroke treatment consistently report a reduction in delays before thrombolysis and cause-based triage in regard to the appropriate target hospital (eg, primary vs comprehensive stroke centre). Moreover, novel medical options for the treatment of stroke patients are also under investigation, such as prehospital differential blood pressure management, reversal of warfarin effects in haemorrhagic stroke, and management of cerebral emergencies other than stroke. However, crucial concerns regarding safety, clinical efficacy, best setting, and cost-effectiveness remain to be addressed in further studies. In the future, mobile stroke units might allow the investigation of novel diagnostic (eg, biomarkers and automated imaging evaluation) and therapeutic (eg, neuroprotective drugs and treatments for haemorrhagic stroke) options in the prehospital setting, thus functioning as a tool for research on prehospital stroke management.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Qualitative Analysis of General Emergency Medicine Providers' Perceptions on Pediatric Emergency Telemedicine.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Most children in the United States are evaluated in general emergency departments (ED), which are staffed by practitioners who care for both adults and children and may have limited pediatric resources. The application of telemedicine in pediatrics is growing and has been shown to be effective in outpatient as well as critical care settings. Telemedicine has the potential to address disparities in access to pediatric emergency care. The objective of this study was to explore experiences of general ED providers with telemedicine and their perception about a potential video telemedicine program with pediatric ED providers.
METHODS: Using qualitative methods, a purposeful sample of general ED providers (attending physicians and physician assistants) in 3 Connecticut hospitals participated in audio-recorded semistructured interviews. In line with grounded theory, 3 researchers independently coded transcripts, collectively refined codes, and created themes. Data collection and analysis continued in an iterative manner, past the point of theoretical saturation.
RESULTS: Eighteen general ED providers were interviewed. Three themes were identified: (a) familiarity with use in adult stroke patients but limited practical experience with telemedicine; (b) potential uses for pediatric telemedicine (guiding pediatric differential diagnosis and management, visual diagnosis, alleviating provider fears, low-frequency high-stakes events, determining disposition, assessing level of illness, and access to subspecialty consultation); and (c) limitations of telemedicine (infrequent need and implementation barriers).
CONCLUSIONS: General ED providers identified 7 specific potential uses of pediatric emergency video telemedicine. However, they also identified several limitations of telemedicine in caring for pediatric emergency patients. Further studies after implementation of telemedicine program and comparing provider perceptions with actual practice may be helpful. Furthermore, studies on telemedicine's effect on patient-related outcomes and studies on cost-effectiveness might be necessary before the widespread implementation of a telemedicine program.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Not Available].
Abstract: Pain is generally undertreated and there is a need to differentiate and improve access to appropriate pain care. The growing Field of telehealth offers a novel opportunity for pain care, exploiting mainly communicative and pharmacological therapeutic principles. Rationale for telemedicine for the management of chronic pain are the potential to overcome timely, economical, and structural barriers for the access to specialized pain care as well as the general open mindedness of physicians and patients towards this technology. The general usability and effectiveness of telemedicine in pain care has been described. The most prominent applications of telemedicine in pain care are store-and-forward applications and direct consultations. Smartphone applications are easily accessible and inexpensive. The quality and effectiveness of smartphone applications has not been evaluated thoroughly due to a lack of regulatory objectives. Estimations of the cost-effectiveness of telemedicine in pain care are limited due to a lack of data regarding long-term outcome and healthcare utilization after treatment. Telemedicine offers new approaches to improve pain care for the treatment of acute postoperative pain as well. Future challenges will be to start a collaborative effort between developers and health-care professionals to implement evidence-based clinical protocols into telemedicine applications and to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of existing telemedicine programmes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs and Outcomes of Increasing Access to Bariatric Surgery: Cohort Study and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Using Electronic Health Records.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To estimate costs and outcomes of increasing access to bariatric surgery in obese adults and in population subgroups of age, sex, deprivation, comorbidity, and obesity category.
METHODS: A cohort study was conducted using primary care electronic health records, with linked hospital utilization data, for 3,045 participants who underwent bariatric surgery and 247,537 participants who did not undergo bariatric surgery. Epidemiological analyses informed a probabilistic Markov model to compare bariatric surgery, including equal proportions with adjustable gastric banding, gastric bypass, and sleeve gastrectomy, with standard nonsurgical management of obesity. Outcomes were quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and net monetary benefits at a threshold of £30,000 per QALY.
RESULTS: In a UK population of 250,000 adults, there may be 7,163 people with morbid obesity including 1,406 with diabetes. The immediate cost of 1,000 bariatric surgical procedures is £9.16 million, with incremental discounted lifetime health care costs of £15.26 million (95% confidence interval £15.18-£15.36 million). Patient-years with diabetes mellitus will decrease by 8,320 (range 8,123-8,502). Incremental QALYs will increase by 2,142 (range 2,032-2,256). The estimated cost per QALY gained is £7,129 (range £6,775-£7,506). Net monetary benefits will be £49.02 million (range £45.72-£52.41 million). Estimates are similar for subgroups of age, sex, and deprivation. Bariatric surgery remains cost-effective if the procedure is twice as costly, or if intervention effect declines over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Diverse obese individuals may benefit from bariatric surgery at acceptable cost. Bariatric surgery is not cost-saving, but increased health care costs are exceeded by health benefits to obese individuals.
Label Included: 0

Title: "What Goes Around Comes Around": Lessons Learned from Economic Evaluations of Personalized Medicine Applied to Digital Medicine.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The growth of "big data" and the emphasis on patient-centered health care have led to the increasing use of two key technologies: personalized medicine and digital medicine. For these technologies to move into mainstream health care and be reimbursed by insurers, it will be essential to have evidence that their benefits provide reasonable value relative to their costs. These technologies, however, have complex characteristics that present challenges to the assessment of their economic value. Previous studies have identified the challenges for personalized medicine and thus this work informs the more nascent topic of digital medicine.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the methodological challenges and future opportunities for assessing the economic value of digital medicine, using personalized medicine as a comparison.
METHODS: We focused specifically on digital biomarker technologies and multigene tests. We identified similarities in these technologies that can present challenges to economic evaluation: multiple results, results with different types of utilities, secondary findings, downstream impact (including on family members), and interactive effects.
RESULTS: Using a structured review, we found that there are few economic evaluations of digital biomarker technologies, with limited results.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that more evidence on the effectiveness of digital medicine will be needed but that the experiences with personalized medicine can inform what data will be needed and how such analyses can be conducted. Our study points out the critical need for typologies and terminology for digital medicine technologies that would enable them to be classified in ways that will facilitate research on their effectiveness and value.
Label Included: 0

Title: Incorporating Budget Impact Analysis in the Implementation of Complex Interventions: A Case of an Integrated Intervention for Multimorbid Patients within the CareWell Study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To develop a framework for the management of complex health care interventions within the Deming continuous improvement cycle and to test the framework in the case of an integrated intervention for multimorbid patients in the Basque Country within the CareWell project.
METHODS: Statistical analysis alone, although necessary, may not always represent the practical significance of the intervention. Thus, to ascertain the true economic impact of the intervention, the statistical results can be integrated into the budget impact analysis. The intervention of the case study consisted of a comprehensive approach that integrated new provider roles and new technological infrastructure for multimorbid patients, with the aim of reducing patient decompensations by 10% over 5 years. The study period was 2012 to 2020.
RESULTS: Given the aging of the general population, the conventional scenario predicts an increase of 21% in the health care budget for care of multimorbid patients during the study period. With a successful intervention, this figure should drop to 18%. The statistical analysis, however, showed no significant differences in costs either in primary care or in hospital care between 2012 and 2014. The real costs in 2014 were by far closer to those in the conventional scenario than to the reductions expected in the objective scenario. The present implementation should be reappraised, because the present expenditure did not move closer to the objective budget.
CONCLUSIONS: This work demonstrates the capacity of budget impact analysis to enhance the implementation of complex interventions. Its integration in the context of the continuous improvement cycle is transferable to other contexts in which implementation depth and time are important.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Health (mHealth) Technology for the Management of Hypertension and Hyperlipidemia: Slow Start but Loads of Potential.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Hypertension and hyperlipidemia represent two major risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Mobile health or mHealth is defined as the use of mobile phone and wireless technologies to support the achievement of health objectives. Management of hypertension, and to some extent hyperlipidemia, has often employed mHealth interventions given lower cost and greater patient engagement compared to traditional methods. These interventions include the use of text messaging, wireless devices, and mobile phone applications. This review considers recent studies evaluating the effectiveness of mHealth interventions in the management of hypertension and hyperlipidemia.
RECENT FINDINGS: Numerous studies have evaluated the role of mHealth interventions in the management of hypertension, while very few have evaluated their role in hyperlipidemia. Text messaging has been used most frequently. However, the trend is shifting towards the use of mobile phone applications and wireless devices. Interventions in developing countries have been modified for greater applicability to local settings. mHealth interventions were found to be frequently effective. However, studies comparing the relative efficacy of various mHealth strategies are scarce. Long-term cardiovascular outcomes data and analyses relating to cost effectiveness are also lacking. mHealth interventions may be effective in improving hypertension management. More studies are needed to evaluate the role of mHealth strategies in hyperlipidemia management, particularly in identifying high-risk individuals and improving medication adherence. Studies assessing the long-term impact of these interventions, comparing different interventions and analyzing their relative cost effectiveness, are also needed. Following recently published guidelines on reporting results of mHealth interventions will provide a more meaningful context for interpreting these promising early studies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness analysis for a tele-based health coaching program for chronic disease in primary care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The burden of chronic disease and multimorbidity is rapidly increasing. Self-management support interventions are effective in reduce cost, especially when targeted at a single disease group; however, economical evidence of such complex interventions remains scarce. The objective of this study was to evaluate a cost-effectiveness analysis of a tele-based health-coaching intervention among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D), coronary artery disease (CAD) and congestive heart failure (CHF).
METHODS: A total of 1570 patients were blindly randomized to intervention (n = 970) and control (n = 470) groups. The intervention group received monthly individual health coaching by telephone from a specially trained nurse for 12-months in addition to routine social and healthcare. Patients in the control group received routine social and health care. Quality of life was assessed at the beginning of the intervention and follow-up measurements were made after 12 months health coaching. The cost included all direct health-care costs supplemented with home care and nursing home-care costs in social care. Utility was based on a Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measurement (15D instrument), and cost effectiveness was assessed using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of health coaching was highest in the T2D group (ICER €20,000 per Quality-Adjusted Life Years [QALY]). The ICER for the CAD group was more modest (€40,278 per QALY), and in the CHF group, costs increased with no marked effect on QoL. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that at the societal willingness to pay threshold of €50,000 per QALY, the probability of health coaching being cost effective was 55% in the whole study group.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost effectiveness of health coaching may vary substantially across patient groups, and thus interventions should be targeted at selected subgroups of chronically ill. Based on the results of this study, health coaching improved the QoL of T2D and CAD patients with moderate costs. However, the results are grounded on a short follow-up period, and more evidence is needed to evaluate the long-term outcomes of health-coaching programs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT00552903 [Prospectively registered, registration date 1st November 2007, last updated 3rd February 2009].
Label Included: 1

Title: Digital chest X-ray through a mobile van: public private partnership to detect sputum negative pulmonary TB.
Abstract: Nearly half of the smear negative pulmonary TB in National TB Programme remain undetected in Haryana (north Indian state), probably due to poor access to chest radiography. A corporate hospital stepped into fill this infrastructure gap in Rewari district of Haryana by sending a mobile van with digital x-ray facilities and paramedic staff. The staff of the public health facility coordinated with the eligible patients and ensured that they visited on the designated day. The District TB Officer interpreted the x-ray and made decisions about diagnosis and treatment. The support was provided between May and Dec 2014 in seven public health centres (primary/secondary level) of the district. A total of 355 patients were examined, of whom 122 (34.4%) were diagnosed as smear negative pulmonary TB and started on treatment according to programme guidelines. This public-private partnership needs to be scaled-up and better designed studies are required to assess community-level impact and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Health in Solid Organ Transplant: The Time Is Now.
Abstract: Despite being in existence for >40 years, the application of telemedicine has lagged significantly in comparison to its generated interest. Detractors include the immobile design of most historic telemedicine interventions and the relative lack of smartphones among the general populace. Recently, the exponential increase in smartphone ownership and familiarity have provided the potential for the development of mobile health (mHealth) interventions that can be mirrored realistically in clinical applications. Existing studies have demonstrated some potential clinical benefits of mHealth in the various phases of solid organ transplantation (SOT). Furthermore, studies in nontransplant chronic diseases may be used to guide future studies in SOT. Nevertheless, substantially more must be accomplished before mHealth becomes mainstream. Further evidence of clinical benefits and a critical need for cost-effectiveness analysis must prove its utility to patients, clinicians, hospitals, insurers, and the federal government. The SOT population is an ideal one in which to demonstrate the benefits of mHealth. In this review, the current evidence and status of mHealth in SOT is discussed, and a general path forward is presented that will allow buy-in from the health care community, insurers, and the federal government to move mHealth from research to standard care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Avoiding hospital admission in COPD: impact of a specialist nursing team.
Abstract: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common, preventable and incurable disease. The costs of caring for patients with COPD is estimated to be more than £800 million a year for acute hospital admissions alone ( Department of Health, 2012 ). The hospital-at-home model is increasingly being adopted for COPD patients following British Thoracic Society (BTS) guidelines for the delivery of hospital admission-avoidance schemes ( BTS, 2007 ). The aim of this case-note review was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a specialist nurse-led acute respiratory assessment service working with COPD patients in the community. The review recorded patient flow through the service and documented assessments and treatments. It was able to document potential benefits and cost savings.
Label Included: 0

Title: The TECH@HOME study, a technological intervention to reduce caregiver burden for informal caregivers of people with dementia: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: It is estimated that global dementia rates will more than triple by 2050 and result in a staggering economic burden on families and societies. Dementia carries significant physical, psychological and social challenges for individuals and caregivers. Informal caregiving is common and increasing as more people with dementia are being cared for at home instead of in nursing homes. Caregiver burden is associated with lower perceived health, lower social coherence, and increased risk of morbidity and mortality. The aim of this trial is to evaluate the effects of information and communication technology (ICT) on caregiver burden among informal caregivers of people with dementia by reducing the need for supervision.
METHODS/DESIGN: This randomized controlled trial aims to recruit 320 dyads composed of people with dementia living in community settings and their primary informal caregivers. In the intervention group, people with dementia will have a home monitoring kit installed in their home while dyads in the control group will receive usual care. The ICT kit includes home-leaving sensors, smoke and water leak sensors, bed sensors, and automatic lights that monitor the individual's behavior. Alerts (text message and/or phone call) will be sent to the caregiver if anything unusual occurs. All study dyads will receive three home visits by project administrators who have received project-specific training in order to harmonize data collection. Home visits will take place at enrollment and 3 and 12 months following installation of the ICT kit. At every home visit, a standardized questionnaire will be administered to all dyads to assess their health, quality of life and resource utilization. The primary outcome of this trial is the amount of informal care support provided by primary informal caregivers to people with dementia.
DISCUSSION: This is the first randomized controlled trial exploring the implementation of ICT for people with dementia in a large sample in Sweden and one of the first at the international level. Results hold the potential to inform regional and national policy-makers in Sweden and beyond about the cost-effectiveness of ICT and its impact on caregiver burden.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02733939 . Registered on 10 March 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparative economic evaluation of home-based and hospital-based palliative care for terminal cancer patients.
Abstract: AIM: To quantify the difference between adjusted costs for home-based palliative care and hospital-based palliative care in terminally ill cancer patients.
METHODS: We carried out a case-control study of home-care patients (cases) who had died at home between January 2009 and December 2013, and hospital-care patients (controls) who had died at a hospital between April 2008 and December 2013. Data on patient characteristics were obtained from insurance claims data and medical records. We identified the determinants of home care using a multivariate logistic regression analysis. Cox proportional hazards analysis was used to examine treatment duration in both types of care, and a generalized linear model was used to estimate the reduction in treatment costs associated with home care.
RESULTS: The case and control groups comprised 48 and 99 patients, respectively. Home care was associated with one or more person(s) living with the patient (adjusted OR 6.54, 95% CI 1.18-36.05), required assistance for activities of daily living (adjusted OR 3.61, 95% CI 1.12-10.51), non-use of oxygen inhalation therapy (adjusted OR 12.75, 95% CI 3.53-46.02), oral or suppository opioid use (adjusted OR 5.74, 95% CI 1.11-29.54) and transdermal patch opioid use (adjusted OR 8.30, 95% CI 1.97-34.93). The adjusted hazard ratio of home care for treatment duration was not significant (adjusted OR 0.95, 95% CI 0.59-1.53). However, home care was significantly associated with a reduction of $7523 (95% CI $7093-7991, P = 0.015) in treatment costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite similar treatment durations between the groups, treatment costs were substantially lower in the home-care group. These findings might inform the policymaking process for improving the home-care support system. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2017; 17: 2247-2254.
Label Included: 0

Title: A methodological framework for assessing agreement between cost-effectiveness outcomes estimated using alternative sources of data on treatment costs and effects for trial-based economic evaluations.
Abstract: A new methodological framework for assessing agreement between cost-effectiveness endpoints generated using alternative sources of data on treatment costs and effects for trial-based economic evaluations is proposed. The framework can be used to validate cost-effectiveness endpoints generated from routine data sources when comparable data is available directly from trial case report forms or from another source. We illustrate application of the framework using data from a recent trial-based economic evaluation of the probiotic Bifidobacterium breve strain BBG administered to babies less than 31 weeks of gestation. Cost-effectiveness endpoints are compared using two sources of information; trial case report forms and data extracted from the National Neonatal Research Database (NNRD), a clinical database created through collaborative efforts of UK neonatal services. Focusing on mean incremental net benefits at £30,000 per episode of sepsis averted, the study revealed no evidence of discrepancy between the data sources (two-sided p values >0.4), low probability estimates of miscoverage (ranging from 0.039 to 0.060) and concordance correlation coefficients greater than 0.86. We conclude that the NNRD could potentially serve as a reliable source of data for future trial-based economic evaluations of neonatal interventions. We also discuss the potential implications of increasing opportunity to utilize routinely available data for the conduct of trial-based economic evaluations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Management of continuous positive airway pressure treatment compliance using telemonitoring in obstructive sleep apnoea.
Abstract: Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is an effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), but treatment compliance is often unsatisfactory. This study investigated the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of telemonitoring for improving CPAP compliance.100 newly diagnosed OSA patients requiring CPAP (apnoea-hypopnoea index >15 events·h-1) were randomised to standard management or a telemonitoring programme that collected daily information about compliance, air leaks and residual respiratory events, and initiated patient contact to resolve issues. Clinical/anthropometric variables, daytime sleepiness and quality of life were recorded at baseline and after 3 months. Patient satisfaction, additional visits/calls, side-effects and total costs were assessed.There were no significant differences between the standard and telemedicine groups in terms of CPAP compliance (4.9±2.2 versus 5.1±2.1 h·night-1), symptoms, clinical variables, quality of life and unwanted effects. Telemedicine was less expensive than standard management (EUR123.65 versus EUR170.97; p=0.022) and was cost-effective (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio EUR17 358.65 per quality-adjusted life-year gained). Overall patient satisfaction was high, but significantly more patients rated satisfaction as high/very high in the standard management versus telemedicine group (96% versus 74%; p=0.034).Telemonitoring did not improve CPAP treatment compliance and was associated with lower patient satisfaction. However, it was more cost-effective than traditional follow-up.
Label Included: 0

Title: Bedside ROP screening and telemedicine interpretation integrated to a neonatal transport system: Economic aspects and return on investment analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIM: Peter Cerny Ambulance Service - Premature Eye Rescue Program (PCA-PERP) uses digital retinal imaging (DRI) with remote interpretation in bedside ROP screening, which has advantages over binocular indirect ophthalmoscopy (BIO) in screening of premature newborns. We aimed to demonstrate that PCA-PERP provides good value for the money and to model the cost ramifications of a similar newly launched system.
METHODS: As DRI was demonstrated to have high diagnostic performance, only the costs of bedside DRI-based screening were compared to those of traditional transport and BIO-based screening (cost-minimization analysis). The total costs of investment and maintenance were analyzed with micro-costing method. A ten-year analysis time-horizon and service provider's perspective were applied.
RESULTS: From the launch of PCA-PERP up to the end of 2014, 3722 bedside examinations were performed in the PCA covered central region of Hungary. From 2009 to 2014, PCA-PERP saved 92,248km and 3633 staff working hours, with an annual nominal cost-savings ranging from 17,435 to 35,140 Euro. The net present value was 127,847 Euro at the end of 2014, with a payback period of 4.1years and an internal rate of return of 20.8%. Our model presented the NPVs of different scenarios with different initial investments, annual number of transports and average transport distances.
CONCLUSIONS: PCA-PERP as bedside screening with remote interpretation, when compared to a transport-based screening with BIO, produced better cost-savings from the perspective of the service provider and provided a return on initial investment within five years after the project initiation.
Label Included: 0

Title: A psychological intervention to promote acceptance and adherence to non-invasive ventilation in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: study protocol of a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: People with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) sometimes experience anxiety, depression and comorbid cognitive deficits. Rather than being merely a consequence of symptom-related physical impairments these additional problems may be part of the clinical course of the condition. The relationship between the physical and psychological aspects of the condition is illustrated by the patterns of use of non-invasive ventilation (NIV); NIV is often rejected or used inappropriately, resulting in clinical deterioration and an increase in health care costs. The study aims to analyse the effects of psychological support on the acceptance of, and adherence to, NIV. The primary outcome will be a latent variable related to indices of use of NIV equipment and adherence to treatment regime; while survival rates and psychological variables will constitute the secondary outcomes.
METHODS: A two-arm randomised controlled trial will be conducted. We aim to recruit 150 COPD patients for whom NIV is indicated. The experimental group will receive a brief course of psychological support that will include counselling, relaxation and mindfulness-based exercises. In some cases, it will also include neuropsychological rehabilitation exercises. Support will be delivered via four to eight meetings at the HD Respiratory Rehabilitation Unit, at home or via telemedicine. Controls will receive standard care and watch educational videos related to the management of their disease.
DISCUSSION: This investigation will gain insight about the role of a psychological intervention as part of a treatment plan during the process of adaptation to NIV in COPD patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, ID: NCT02499653 . Registered on 14 July 2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: Addressing the gaps in diabetes care in first nations communities with the reorganizing the approach to diabetes through the application of registries (RADAR): the project protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Type-2 diabetes rates in First Nations communities are 3-5 times higher than the general Canadian population, resulting in a high burden of disease, complications and comorbidity. Limited community nursing capacity, isolated environments and a lack of electronic health records (EHR)/registries lead to a reactive, disorganized approach to diabetes care for many First Nations people. The Reorganizing the Approach to Diabetes through the Application of Registries (RADAR) project was developed in alignments with federal calls for innovative, culturally relevant, community-specific programs for people with type-2 diabetes developed and delivered in partnership with target communities.
METHODS: RADAR applies both an integrated diabetes EHR/registry system (CARE platform) and centralized care coordinator (CC) service that will support local healthcare. The CC will work with local healthcare workers to support patient and community health needs (using the CARE platform) and build capacity in best practices for type-2 diabetes management. A modified stepped wedge controlled trial design will be used to evaluate the model. During the baseline phase, the CC will work with local healthcare workers to identify patients with type-2 diabetes and register them into the CARE platform, but not make any management recommendations. During the intervention phase, the CC will work with local healthcare workers to proactively manage patients with type-2 diabetes, including monitoring and recall of patients, relaying clinical information and coordinating care, facilitated through the shared use of the CARE platform. The RE-AIM framework will provide a comprehensive assessment of the model. The primary outcome measure will be a 10% improvement in any one of A1c, BP, or cholesterol over the baseline values. Secondary endpoints will address other diabetes care indicators including: the proportion of clinical measures completed in accordance with guidelines (e.g., foot and eye examination, receipt of vaccinations, smoking cessation counseling); the number of patients registered in CARE; and the proportion of patients linked to a health services provider. The cost-effectiveness of RADAR specific to these communities will be assessed. Concurrent qualitative assessments will provide contextual information, such as the quality/usability of the CARE platform and the impact/satisfaction with the model.
DISCUSSION: RADAR combines innovative technology with personalized support to deliver organized diabetes care in remote First Nations communities in Alberta. By improving the ability of First Nations to systematically identify and track diabetes patients and share information seamlessly an overall improvement in the quality of clinical care of First Nations people living with type-2 diabetes on reserve is anticipated.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN study ID ISRCTN14359671 , retrospectively registered October 7, 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of the cardiac-diabetes transcare program: protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: This paper presents a protocol for a randomised controlled trial of the Cardiac-Diabetes Transcare program which is a transitional care, multi-modal self-management program for patients with acute coronary syndrome comorbid with type 2 diabetes. Prior research has indicated people hospitalised with dual cardiac and diabetes diagnoses are at an elevated risk of hospital readmissions, morbidity and mortality. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness (and cost-effectiveness) of a Cardiac-Diabetes Transcare intervention program on 6-month readmission rate in comparison to usual care.
METHODS/DESIGN: A two-armed, randomised controlled trial with blinded outcome assessment will be conducted to evaluate the comparative effectiveness of two modes of care, including a Usual Care Group and a Cardiac-Diabetes Transcare Intervention (in addition to usual care) Group. The primary outcome is 6-month readmission rate, although a range of secondary outcomes will be collected (including self-efficacy) at baseline, 1, 3 and 6 month reassessments. The intervention group will receive in-hospital education tailored for people recovering from an acute coronary syndrome-related hospital admission who have comorbid diabetes, and they will also receive home visits and telephone follow-up by a trained Research Nurse to reinforce and facilitate disease-management-related behaviour change. Both groups will receive usual care interventions offered or referred from participating hospital facilities. A sample size of 432 participants from participating hospitals in the Australian states of Queensland and Victoria will be recruited for 90% power based on the most conservative scenarios modelled for sample size estimates.
DISCUSSION: The study outlined in this protocol will provide valuable insight into the effectiveness of a transitional care intervention targeted for people admitted to hospital with cardiac-related presentations commencing in the inpatient hospital setting and transition to the home environment. The purpose of theory-based intervention comprising face-to-face sessions and telephone follow up for patients with acute coronary syndrome and type 2 diabetes is to increase self-efficacy to enhance self-management behaviours and thus improve health outcomes and reduce hospital readmissions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study has been registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry dated 16/12/2014: ACTRN12614001317684 .
Label Included: 0

Title: The economic case for digital interventions for eating disorders among United States college students.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Eating disorders (EDs) are serious health problems affecting college students. This article aimed to estimate the costs, in United States (US) dollars, of a stepped care model for online prevention and treatment among US college students to inform meaningful decisions regarding resource allocation and adoption of efficient care delivery models for EDs on college campuses.
METHODS: Using a payer perspective, we estimated the costs of (1) delivering an online guided self-help (GSH) intervention to individuals with EDs, including the costs of "stepping up" the proportion expected to "fail"; (2) delivering an online preventive intervention compared to a "wait and treat" approach to individuals at ED risk; and (3) applying the stepped care model across a population of 1,000 students, compared to standard care.
RESULTS: Combining results for online GSH and preventive interventions, we estimated a stepped care model would cost less and result in fewer individuals needing in-person psychotherapy (after receiving less-intensive intervention) compared to standard care, assuming everyone in need received intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: A stepped care model was estimated to achieve modest cost savings compared to standard care, but these estimates need to be tested with sensitivity analyses. Model assumptions highlight the complexities of cost calculations to inform resource allocation, and considerations for a disseminable delivery model are presented. Efforts are needed to systematically measure the costs and benefits of a stepped care model for EDs on college campuses, improve the precision and efficacy of ED interventions, and apply these calculations to non-US care systems with different cost structures.
Label Included: 0

Title: What is the economic evidence for mHealth? A systematic review of economic evaluations of mHealth solutions.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mobile health (mHealth) is often reputed to be cost-effective or cost-saving. Despite optimism, the strength of the evidence supporting this assertion has been limited. In this systematic review the body of evidence related to economic evaluations of mHealth interventions is assessed and summarized.
METHODS: Seven electronic bibliographic databases, grey literature, and relevant references were searched. Eligibility criteria included original articles, comparison of costs and consequences of interventions (one categorized as a primary mHealth intervention or mHealth intervention as a component of other interventions), health and economic outcomes and published in English. Full economic evaluations were appraised using the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist and The PRISMA guidelines were followed.
RESULTS: Searches identified 5902 results, of which 318 were examined at full text, and 39 were included in this review. The 39 studies spanned 19 countries, most of which were conducted in upper and upper-middle income countries (34, 87.2%). Primary mHealth interventions (35, 89.7%), behavior change communication type interventions (e.g., improve attendance rates, medication adherence) (27, 69.2%), and short messaging system (SMS) as the mHealth function (e.g., used to send reminders, information, provide support, conduct surveys or collect data) (22, 56.4%) were most frequent; the most frequent disease or condition focuses were outpatient clinic attendance, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. The average percent of CHEERS checklist items reported was 79.6% (range 47.62-100, STD 14.18) and the top quartile reported 91.3-100%. In 29 studies (74.3%), researchers reported that the mHealth intervention was cost-effective, economically beneficial, or cost saving at base case.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings highlight a growing body of economic evidence for mHealth interventions. Although all studies included a comparison of intervention effectiveness of a health-related outcome and reported economic data, many did not report all recommended economic outcome items and were lacking in comprehensive analysis. The identified economic evaluations varied by disease or condition focus, economic outcome measurements, perspectives, and were distributed unevenly geographically, limiting formal meta-analysis. Further research is needed in low and low-middle income countries and to understand the impact of different mHealth types. Following established economic reporting guidelines will improve this body of research.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effectiveness of Lee Silverman Voice Treatment therapy issued interactively through an iPad device: A non-inferiority study.
Abstract: Introduction This study compared the differences in recorded speech variables between people treated with conventional 'in person' Lee Silverman Voice Treatment (LSVT) and those treated remotely via iPad-based 'Facetime'. Method Eight participants were selected for the iPad LSVT, and 21 similarly matched subjects were selected from existing data to form the 'in person' group. Participants in both groups had diagnosed idiopathic Parkinson's disease and moderate hypokinetic dysarthria. Eighteen sessions of prescribed LSVT comprising a pre-treatment assessment, 16 treatment sessions, and a six months' post-treatment assessment were administered for each person. In both groups, pre- and post-treatment assessments were conducted face-to-face. Performance measures were recorded during assessment and treatment. Average measures were determined for all tasks at all time points and a summary outcome variable was composed from across-task performance. Results Non-inferiority testing confirmed that iPad LSVT was non-inferior in treating all LSVT task 3 variables except generating words, with the 90% upper confidence intervals (CI) lying between the non-inferiority margin of ± 2.25 and zero. The iPad was superior in treating the task 3 rainbow reading passage and describing motor task variables with upper and lower 90% CI values being negative. The improvement in the summary outcome variable score was also superior in the iPad group. Discussion Non-inferiority testing implies that the iPad LSVT is non-inferior in treating task three variables when compared to traditional LSVT. The study supports further development of remote delivery solutions involving the Apple iPad and 'Facetime' system as a means of improving access to services and the participant's experience.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Effectiveness of a Novel Attempt to Reduce Readmission after Ileostomy Creation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Dehydration is a common complication after ileostomy creation and is the most frequent reason for postoperative readmission to the hospital. We sought to determine the clinical and economic impact of an outpatient intervention to decrease readmissions for dehydration after ileostomy creation.
METHODS: All new ileostomates from 09/2011 through 10/2012 at the University of Florida were enrolled to receive an ileostomy education and management protocol and a daily telephone call for 3 weeks after discharge. Counseling and medication adjustments were provided, with a satisfaction survey at the end. Outcomes of these patients were compared to those in a historical control cohort. A cost analysis was conducted to calculate the savings to the hospital.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients were enrolled. All patients required telephone counseling, and the mean satisfaction score rating was 4.69, on a scale of 1 to 5. The readmission rate for dehydration within 30 days of discharge decreased significantly from 65% before intervention to 16% (5/32 patients) after intervention (P = .002). The length of readmission hospital stay decreased from a mean of 4.2 days before the introduction of the intervention to 3 days after. Cost analysis revealed that the actual total hospital cost of dehydration-specific readmission decreased from $88,858 to $25,037, a saving of $63,821.
CONCLUSION: A standardized ileostomy pathway with comprehensive patient education and outpatient telephone follow-up is cost effective, has a positive influence on patient satisfaction, and reduces dehydration-related readmission rates.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a new Transmural Trauma Care Model (TTCM) for the rehabilitation of trauma patients: a study protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Improved organization of trauma care in the acute phase has reduced mortality of trauma patients. However, there has been limited attention for the optimal organization of post-clinical rehabilitation of trauma patients. Therefore we developed a Transmural Trauma Care Model (TTCM). This TTCM consists of four equally important components: 1) intake and follow up consultations by a multidisciplinary team consisting of trauma surgeon and hospital based trauma physical therapist, 2) coordination and individual goal setting for each patient by this team, 3) primary care physical therapy by specialized physical therapists organized in a network and 4) E-health support for transmural communication and treatment according to protocols. The aim of the current study is to assess the cost-effectiveness of the TTCM.
METHODS: Patients will be recruited from the outpatient clinic for trauma patients of the VU University Medical Center (VUmc) if they have at least one fracture and were discharged home. A controlled-before-and-after study design will be used to compare the TTCM with regular care. Measurements will take place after the first outpatient clinical visit and after 3, 6 and 9 months. Prior to the implementation of the TTCM, 200 patients (50 patients per time point) will be included in the control group. After implementation 100 patients will be included in the intervention group and prospectively followed. Between-group comparisons will be made separately for each time point. In addition, the recovery pattern of patients in the intervention group will be studied using longitudinal data analysis methods. Effectiveness will be evaluated in terms of health-related quality of life (HR-QOL), pain, functional status, patient satisfaction, and perceived recovery. Cost-effectiveness will be assessed from a societal perspective, meaning that all costs related to the TTCM will be taken into account including intervention, health care, absenteeism, presenteeism and unpaid productivity. Additionally, a process evaluation will be performed to explore the extent to which the TTCM was implemented as intended, and to identify possible facilitators and barriers associated with its implementation.
DISCUSSION: This planned research will give insight into the feasibility of the TTCM model in clinical practice and will give a first indication of the cost-effectiveness of the TTCM and help us to further develop post-clinical trauma care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Trial registration number: NTR5474 . The Netherlands National Trial Register (NTR). Registered 12 October 2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effects of cardiac telerehabilitation in patients with coronary artery disease using a personalised patient-centred web application: protocol for the SmartCare-CAD randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation has beneficial effects on morbidity and mortality in patients with coronary artery disease, but is vastly underutilised and short-term improvements are often not sustained. Telerehabilitation has the potential to overcome these barriers, but its superiority has not been convincingly demonstrated yet. This may be due to insufficient focus on behavioural change and development of patients' self-management skills. Moreover, potentially beneficial communication methods, such as internet and video consultation, are rarely used. We hypothesise that, when compared to centre-based cardiac rehabilitation, cardiac telerehabilitation using evidence-based behavioural change strategies, modern communication methods and on-demand coaching will result in improved self-management skills and sustainable behavioural change, which translates to higher physical activity levels in a cost-effective way.
METHODS: This randomised controlled trial compares cardiac telerehabilitation with centre-based cardiac rehabilitation in patients with coronary artery disease. We randomise 300 patients entering cardiac rehabilitation to centre-based cardiac rehabilitation (control group) or cardiac telerehabilitation (intervention group). The core component of the intervention is a patient-centred web application, which enables patients to adjust rehabilitation goals, inspect training and physical activity data, share data with other caregivers and to use video consultation. After six supervised training sessions, the intervention group continues exercise training at home, wearing an accelerometer and heart rate monitor. In addition, physical activity levels are assessed by the accelerometer for four days per week. Patients upload training and physical activity data weekly and receive feedback through video consultation once a week. After completion of the rehabilitation programme, on-demand coaching is performed when training adherence or physical activity levels decline with 50% or more. The primary outcome measure is physical activity level, assessed at baseline, three months and twelve months, and is calculated from accelerometer and heart rate data. Secondary outcome measures include physical fitness, quality of life, anxiety and depression, patient empowerment, patient satisfaction and cost-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: This study is one of the first studies evaluating effects and costs of a cardiac telerehabilitation intervention comprising a combination of modern technology and evidence-based behavioural change strategies including relapse prevention. We hypothesise that this intervention has superior effects on exercise behaviour without exceeding the costs of a traditional centre-based intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register NTR5156 . Registered 22 April 2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: How Appropriate Is All This Data Sharing? Building Consensus Around What We Need to Know About Shared Electronic Health Records in Extended Circles of Care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The bulk of healthcare spending is on individuals who have complex needs related to age, income, chronic disease and mental illness. Care involves many different professions, and interoperable electronic health records (EHRs) are increasingly essential.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this paper is to describe the use of a nominal group technique (NGT) to develop a stakeholder-centred research agenda for clinical interoperability in extended circles of care that include social supports.
METHODS: We held a day-long meeting with 30 stakeholders, including primary care providers, social supports, patient representatives, health region managers, technology experts, health organizations and experts in privacy, law and ethics. Participants considered, "What research needs to be done to better understand how EHRs should be shared across large healthcare teams that include social supports?" Following sensitizing presentations from researchers and participants, we used an NGT to generate and rank research questions on a 9-point Likert scale. We retained research questions that had a mean score of at least 6.5/9 by at least 70% of the participants over two rounds of consensus-building.
RESULTS: Participants identified and ranked 57 research questions. Five items achieved consensus, related to 1) the impact of information sharing on care team outcomes, 2) data quality/accuracy, 3) cost/benefit, 4) what processes use what data and 5) regulation/legislation.
CONCLUSION: Healthcare reforms are increasingly focused on systems that integrate and coordinate multidisciplinary care, facilitated by EHRs. Research prioritization will ensure common concerns and barriers are addressed and resolved.
Label Included: 0

Title: Better care through better use of data in GP-patient partnerships.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: A systematic review of the research evidence for the benefits of teledentistry.
Abstract: Objective This review is designed to inform future decisions about the benefits of integrating teledentistry into routine health services, by presenting an overview of the evidence for the effectiveness and economic impact of teledentistry. Methods Two reviewers searched PubMed, EMBASE and CINAHL databases through November 2016 to identify published peer-reviewed studies in English. Teledentistry studies were included if they were; (a) controlled (randomised or non-randomised) assessment studies; and (b) compared outcomes of a teledentistry intervention in terms of clinical or economic evaluation with the outcomes of traditional clinical alternatives. The quality of the studies was evaluated using a quality appraisal tool that considered study performance and design. Results This review identified 385 publications, of which 217 full-text articles were retrieved for further inspection. Of these, only 11 articles met the inclusion criteria. Nine of the included articles showed some clinical outcomes; the other two were primarily economic analyses. The balance of these studies assesed the efficacy of teledentistry interventions rather than their effectiveness. Four studies (36%) achieved higher quality scores and have greater potential to influence health-care decision-making. To date, the most convincing published evidence regarding the efficacy of teledentistry was provided by studies on paediatric dentistry, orthodontics and oral medicine. The economic analysis referred only to cost-minimisation, suggesting that the use of teleconsultation in dentistry can be cost-saving when compared to a conventional consultation. However, high-quality economic studies on teledentistry are rare. Conclusion There is emerging evidence supporting the efficacy of teledentistry. However, there is not yet enough conclusive evidence, particularly for its effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and long-term use, to make evidence-based policy decisions on teledentistry.
Label Included: 0

Title: Attitudes towards digital treatment for depression: A European stakeholder survey.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The integration of digital treatments into national mental health services is on the agenda in the European Union. The E-COMPARED consortium conducted a survey aimed at exploring stakeholders' knowledge, acceptance and expectations of digital treatments for depression, and at identifying factors that might influence their opinions when considering the implementation of these approaches.
METHOD: An online survey was conducted in eight European countries: France, Germany, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and The United Kingdom. Organisations representing government bodies, care providers, service-users, funding/insurance bodies, technical developers and researchers were invited to participate in the survey. The participating countries and organisations reflect the diversity in health care infrastructures and e-health implementation across Europe.
RESULTS: A total of 764 organisations were invited to the survey during the period March-June 2014, with 175 of these organisations participating in our survey. The participating stakeholders reported moderate knowledge of digital treatments and considered cost-effectiveness to be the primary incentive for integration into care services. Low feasibility of delivery within existing care services was considered to be a primary barrier. Digital treatments were regarded more suitable for milder forms of depression. Stakeholders showed greater acceptability towards blended treatment (the integration of face-to-face and internet sessions within the same treatment protocol) compared to standalone internet treatments. Organisations in countries with developed e-health solutions reported greater knowledge and acceptability of digital treatments.
CONCLUSION: Mental health stakeholders in Europe are aware of the potential benefits of digital interventions. However, there are variations between countries and stakeholders in terms of level of knowledge about such interventions and their feasibility within routine care services. The high acceptance of blended treatments is an interesting finding that indicates a gradual integration of technology into clinical practice may fit the attitudes and needs of stakeholders. The potential of the blended treatment approach, in terms of enhancing acceptance of digital treatment while retaining the benefit of cost-effectiveness in delivery, should be further explored.
FUNDING: The E-COMPARED project has received funding from the European Union Seventh Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agreement no. 603098.
Label Included: 0

Title: Study protocol of an equivalence randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness of three different approaches to collecting Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) data using the Prostate Cancer Outcomes Registry-Victoria (PCOR-VIC).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) are used by clinical quality registries to assess patients' perspectives of care outcomes and quality of life. PROMs can be assessed through a self-administered survey or by a third party. Use of mixed mode approaches where PROMs are completed using a single or combination of administration method is emerging. The aim of this study is to identify the most cost-effective efficient approach to collecting PROMs among three modes (telephone, postal service/mail and email) in a population-based clinical quality registry monitoring survivorship after a diagnosis of prostate cancer. This is important to assist the registry in achieving representative PROMs capture using the most cost-effective technique and in developing cost projections for national scale-up.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study will adopt an equivalence randomised controlled design. Participants are men diagnosed with and/or treated for prostate cancer (PCa) participating in PCOR-VIC and meet the criteria for 12-month follow-up. Participants will be individually randomized to three independent groups: telephone, mail/postal, or email to complete the 26-item Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) survey. It is estimated each group will have 229 respondents. We will compare the proportion of completed surveys across the three groups. The economic evaluation will be undertaken from the perspective of the data collection centre and consider all operating costs (personnel, supplies, training, operation and maintenance). Cost data will be captured using an Activity Based Costs method. To estimate the most cost-effective approach, we will calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. A cost projection model will be developed based on most cost-effective approach for nationwide scale-up of the PROMs tool for follow-up of PCa patients in Australia.
DISCUSSION: This study will identify the most cost-effective approach for collecting PROMs from men with PCa, and enable estimation of costs for national implementation of the PCa PROMs survey. The findings will be of interest to other registries embarking on PROMs data collection.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ACTRN12615001369516 (Registered on December 16, 2015).
Label Included: 0

Title: [Utilization of technological resources within the framework of operation of a Mobile Mental Health Unit].
Abstract: Telepsychiatry was introduced in the early 1950's for the provision of mental health services from a distance. In 1990 the progress made in telecommunications technologies caused a significant expansion in telepsychiatry services. It can refer to store and forward technologies, interactive technologies, remote monitoring technologies and it is applied to contribute to the lift of restrictions placed on providing mental health services. Restrictions may exist due to geographic isolation, lack of specialized services, high cost of moving patients etc. The positive cost-benefit analysis and the reliability of diagnosis and efficacy of interventions through telepsychiatry have been documented in various research papers referring to a wide range of contexts such as prisons, remote areas, general and psychiatric hospitals. Since 2003 the Mobile Mental Health Unit of South- Eastern (SE) Cyclades has been using videoconferencing in order to provide mental health services in thirteen islands. This area shares many of the characteristics of remote areas such as residential dispersion, lack of mental health services and frequent lack of access to services in urban centers. Telepsychiatry in conjunction with physical presence of professionals was launched by the Mobile Mental Health Unit in order to provide assistance to the evaluation of patients, to therapeutic interventions, to medicine prescription, to crisis intervention, to psychoeducation of patients and their families and to the implementation of educational and administrative activities . The use of existing technology in combination with the development of human resources has enabled continuity of care, crisis intervention and avoidance of involuntary hospitalization for a significant number of persons. Moreover, it has improved cooperation and coordination between the interdisciplinary team and local authorities and agencies. When professionals located in different parts are collaborating via telepsychiatry it is necessary to ensure that they have immediate and simultaneous access to data concerning the patient. This need is served by the electronic medical record that facilitates access to patient records, improves the quality of care, reduces the probability of making wrong decisions and contributes to the promotion of research and service evaluation. KLIMAKA's electronic medical record contains more than ten thousand cases of which 4544 are related to individuals served by the Mobile Mental Health Unit during the years 2003-2010. This article presents the basic functions and parameters of the electronic medical record, the applications of telepsychiatry in the whole range of services provided by the scientific staff and provides information on how human and technology resources are distributed to the branches of the Mobile Mental Health Unit of SE Cyclades.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs of formal and informal care in the last year of life for patients in receipt of specialist palliative care.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Economic evaluation of palliative care has been slow to develop and the evidence base remains small.
AIM: This article estimates formal and informal care costs in the last year of life for a sample of patients who received specialist palliative care in three different areas in Ireland.
DESIGN: Formal care costs are calculated for community, specialist palliative care, acute hospital and other services. Where possible, a bottom-up approach is used, multiplying service utilisation by unit cost. Informal care is valued at the replacement cost of care.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Data on utilisation were collected during 215 'after death' telephone interviews with a person centrally involved in the care in the last year of life of decedents who received specialist palliative care in three areas in Ireland with varying levels of specialist palliative care.
RESULTS: Mean total formal and informal costs in the last year of life do not vary significantly across the three areas. The components of formal costs, however, do vary across areas, particularly for hospital and specialist palliative care in the last 3 months of life.
CONCLUSION: Costs in the last year of life for patients in receipt of specialist palliative care are considerable. Where inpatient hospice care is available, there are potential savings in hospital costs to offset specialist palliative care inpatient costs. Informal care accounts for a high proportion of costs during the last year of life in each area, underlining the important role of informal caregivers in palliative care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using teledentistry in clinical practice as an enabler to improve access to clinical care: A qualitative systematic review.
Abstract: Background Access to dental care is important for overall health, but can remain problematic for those in rural or isolated locations. It can be difficult to encourage clinicians to choose or continue a rural health career. Teledentistry is showing some promise as a strategy to support rural, isolated and new health care workers. This study aims to explore the quantitative and qualitative framework associated with teledentistry in an effort to uncover the interaction of multiple influences on its delivery and sustainability. Methods A systematic search of the literature was undertaken and studies were included if they evaluated consultative teledentistry, reports on implementation of teledentistry in practice or attitudes to teledentistry. Studies were evaluated qualitatively. Results Thirty-nine studies were included focusing on the accuracy, effectiveness or description a teledentistry project in practice. Five main themes were identified in the qualitative analysis: (1) using information and communication technology (ICT), (2) regulatory and system improvements, (3) accuracy of teledentistry, (4) effectiveness, including increasing access to clinical services, efficiencies and acceptability, and (5) building and increasing clinical capacity of the dental workforce. Conclusion Teledentistry provides a viable option for remote screening, diagnosis, consultation, treatment planning and mentoring in the field of dentistry. Rapidly developing information and communication technologies have increasingly shown improving cost effectiveness, accuracy and efficient remote assistance for clinicians. There is high acceptability for teledentistry amongst clinicians and patients alike. Remuneration of advising clinicians is critical to sustainability.
Label Included: 0

Title: Results of a randomized controlled trial analyzing telemedically supported case management in the first year after living donor kidney transplantation - a budget impact analysis from the healthcare perspective.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: ᅟ: We analyze one-year costs and savings of a telemedically supported case management program after kidney transplantation from the perspective of the German Healthcare System. Recipients of living donor kidney transplantation (N = 46) were randomly allocated to either (1) standard aftercare or (2) standard aftercare plus additional telemedically supported case management. A range of cost figures of each patient's medical service utilization were calculated at month 3, 6 and 12 and analyzed using two-part regression models. In comparison to standard aftercare, patients receiving telemedically supported case management are associated with substantial lower costs related to unscheduled hospitalizations (mean difference: €3,417.46 per patient for the entire one-year period, p = 0.003). Taking all cost figures into account, patients receiving standard aftercare are associated, on average, with one-year medical service utilization costs of €10,449.28, while patients receiving telemedically supported case management are associated with €5,504.21 of costs (mean difference: € 4,945.07 per patient, p < 0.001). With estimated expenditures of €3,001.5 for telemedically supported case management of a single patient, we determined a mean difference of €1,943.57, but this result is not statistically significant (p = 0.128). Sensitivity analyses show that the program becomes cost-neutral at around ten participating patients, and was beneficial starting at 15 patients. Routine implementation of telemedically supported case management in German medium and high-volume transplant centers would result in annual cost savings of €791,033 for the German healthcare system. Patients with telemedically supported case management showed a lower utilization of medical services as well as better medical outcomes. Therefore, such programs should be implemented in medium and high-volume transplant centers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: DRKS00007634 ( http://www.drks.de/DRKS00007634 ).
Label Included: 0

Title: Internet-based skin cancer screening using clinical images alone or in conjunction with dermoscopic images: A randomized teledermoscopy trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Teledermoscopy involves the use of dermoscopic images for remote consultation and decision-making in skin cancer screening.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to analyze the potential benefits gained from the addition of dermoscopic images to an internet-based skin cancer screening system.
METHODS: A randomized clinical trial assessed the diagnostic performance and cost-effectiveness of clinical teleconsultations (CTC) and clinical with dermoscopic teleconsultations.
RESULTS: A total of 454 patients were enrolled in the trial (nCTC = 226, nclinical with dermoscopic teleconsultation = 228). Teledermoscopy improved sensitivity and specificity (92.86% and 96.24%, respectively) compared with CTC (86.57% and 72.33%, respectively). Correct decisions were made in 94.30% of patients through clinical with dermoscopic teleconsultations and in 79.20% in CTC (P < .001). The only variable associated with an increased likelihood of correct diagnosis was management using teledermoscopy (odds ratio 4.04; 95% confidence interval 2.02-8.09; P < .0001). The cost-effectiveness analysis showed teledermoscopy as the dominant strategy, with a lower cost-effectiveness ratio (65.13 vs 80.84).
LIMITATIONS: Potentially, a limitation is the establishment of an experienced dermatologist as the gold standard for the in-person evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of dermoscopic images significantly improves the results of an internet-based skin cancer screening system, compared with screening systems based on clinical images alone.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Effect of Price Information on the Ordering of Images and Procedures.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Ordering rates for imaging studies and procedures may change if clinicians are shown the prices of those tests while they are ordering. We studied the effect of 2 forms of paid price information, single median price and paired internal/external median prices, on how often pediatric-focused and adult-oriented clinicians (most frequently general pediatricians and adult specialists caring for pediatric-aged patients, respectively) order imaging studies and procedures for 0- to 21-year-olds.
METHODS: In January 2014, we randomized 227 pediatric-focused and 279 adult-oriented clinicians to 1 of 3 study arms: Control (no price display), Single Median Price, or Paired Internal/External Median Prices (both with price display in the ordering screen of electronic health record). We used 1-way analysis of variance and paired t tests to examine how frequently clinicians (1) placed orders and (2) designated tests to be completed internally within an accountable care organization.
RESULTS: For pediatric-focused clinicians, there was no significant difference in the rates at which orders were placed or designated to be completed internally across the study arms. For adult-oriented clinicians caring for children and adolescents, however, those in the Single Price and Paired Price arms placed orders at significantly higher rates than those in the Control group (Control 3.2 [SD 4.8], Single Price 6.2 [SD 6.8], P < .001 and Paired Prices 5.2 [SD 7.9], P = .04). The rate at which adult-oriented clinicians designated tests to be completed internally was not significantly different across arms.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of price information on ordering rates appears to depend on whether the clinician is pediatric-focused or adult-oriented.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implantable cardiac devices: the utility of remote monitoring in a paediatric and CHD population.
Abstract: Remote monitoring in the modern era has improved outcomes for patients with cardiac implantable electronic devices. There are many advantages to remote monitoring, including improved quality of life for patients, decreased need for in-office interrogation, and secondary reduced costs. Patient safety and enhanced survival remain the most significant benefit. With most of the published literature on this topic being focussed on adults, paediatric outcomes continue to be defined. This is a review of the benefits of remote monitoring in paediatrics and in patients with CHD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Palliative Care Scorecard.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In response to poor healthcare quality outcomes and rising costs, healthcare reform triple aim has increased requirements for providers to demonstrate value to payers, partners, and the public.
OBJECTIVE: Electronically automating measurement of the meaningful impact of palliative care (PC) programs on clinical, operational, and financial systems over time is imperative to the success of the field and the goal of development of this automated PC scorecard.
DESIGN: The scorecard was organized into a format of quality measures identified by the Measuring What Matters (MWM) project that are defined as important to the team, automatically extracted from the electronic health record, valid, and can be impacted over time.
SETTING: The scorecard was initially created using University of Florida Health (UF) data, a new PC program, and successfully applied and implemented at University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus (CU), a second institution with a mature PC program.
MEASUREMENTS: Clinical metrics are organized in the scorecard based on MWM and described in terms of the metric definition, rationale for selection, measure type (structure, process, or outcome), and whether this represents a direct or proxy measure.
RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: The process of constructing the scorecard helped identify areas within both systems for potential improvement in team structure, clinical processes, and outcomes. In addition, by automating data extraction, the scorecard decreases costs associated with manual data entry and extraction, freeing clinical staff to care for patients and increasing the value of PC delivered to patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Referral with images--equitable and cost-effective care].
Abstract: This study evaluates the use of teledermatology at Norrland University Hospital in Northern Sweden between 2009 and 2014. In total, there were 27 198 incoming referrals. Of these, 1504 had photo attachments, and could be answered directly without a face-to-face appointment. Most of these referrals (73%) came from health care providers more than 100 kilometres away and 71% were answered within a week. Patients received care sooner and saved both time and money by less travelling. Teledermatology lead to less delay to a face-to-face appointment for patients where teledermatology was not an option.
Label Included: 0

Title: An evaluation of the telehealth facilitation of diabetes and cardiovascular care in remote Australian Indigenous communities: - protocol for the telehealth eye and associated medical services network [TEAMSnet] project, a pre-post study design.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Despite substantial investment in detection, early intervention and evidence-based treatments, current management strategies for diabetes-associated retinopathy and cardiovascular disease are largely based on real-time and face-to-face approaches. There are limited data re telehealth facilitation in type 2 diabetes management. Therefore, we aim to investigate efficacy of telehealth facilitation of diabetes and cardiovascular disease care in high-risk vulnerable Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders in remote/very remote Australia.
METHODS: Using a pre-post intervention design, 600 Indigenous Australians with type 2 diabetes will be recruited from three primary-care health-services in the Northern Territory. Diabetes status will be based on clinical records. There will be four technological interventions: 1. Baseline retinal imaging [as a real-time patient education/engagement tool and telehealth screening strategy]. 2. A lifestyle survey tool administered at ≈ 6-months. 3. At ≈ 6- and 18-months, an electronic cardiovascular disease and diabetes decision-support tool based on current guidelines in the Standard Treatment Manual of the Central Australian Rural Practitioner's Association to generate clinical recommendations. 4. Mobile tablet technology developed to enhance participant engagement in self-management. Data will include: Pre-intervention clinical and encounter-history data, baseline retinopathy status, decision-support and survey data/opportunistic mobile tablet encounter data. The primary outcome is increased participant adherence to clinical appointments, a marker of engagement and self-management. A cost-benefit analysis will be performed.
DISCUSSION: Remoteness is a major barrier to provision and uptake of best-practice chronic disease management. Telehealth, beyond videoconferencing of consultations, could facilitate evidence-based management of diabetes and cardiovascular disease in Indigenous Australians and serve as a model for other conditions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register (ANZCTR): ACTRN 12616000370404 was retrospectively registered on 22/03/2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementing electronic records in NHS secondary care organizations in England: policy and progress since 1998.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A number of different policies have aimed to introduce electronic records into National Health Service (NHS) secondary care organizations in England over recent years. There has been little formal attempt to explore the overall impact of these policies (as opposed to evaluations of individual initiatives) and how they have developed and progressed over time.
SOURCES OF DATA: National NHS IT policy documents and evaluations of national NHS IT policy between 1998 and 2015.
AREAS OF AGREEMENT: There has been limited progress in implementing integrated electronic records in secondary organizations since 1998.
AREAS OF CONTROVERSY: The management and execution of NHS IT policy has been poor, with over ambitious aims contributing to the limited success.
GROWING POINTS: Detailed guidance on how to implement electronic records in secondary care organizations is required. The ambitions of current policy should be revisited.
AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING FURTHER RESEARCH: Research exploring the costs and benefits of different approaches to introducing electronic records is needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Participatory design methods in telemedicine research.
Abstract: Healthcare systems require a paradigm shift in the way healthcare services are delivered to counteract demographic changes in patient populations, expanding technological developments and the increasing complexity of healthcare. Participatory design (PD) is a methodology that promotes the participation of users in the design process of potential telehealth applications. A PD project can be divided into four phases including: the identification and analysis of participant needs; the generation of ideas and development of prototypes; testing and further development of prototypes; and evaluation. PD is an iterative process where each phase is planned by reflecting on the results from the previous phase with respect to the participants' contribution. Key activities of a PD project include: fieldwork; literature reviewing; and development and testing. All activities must be applied with a participatory mindset that will ensure genuine participation throughout the project. Challenges associated with the use of PD include: the time required to properly engage with participants; language and culture barriers amongst participants; the selection of participants to ensure good representation of the user group; and empowerment. PD is an important process, which is complemented by other evaluation strategies that assess organisational requirements, clinical safety, and clinical and cost effectiveness. PD is a methodology which encourages genuine involvement, where participants have an opportunity to identify practical problems and to design and test technology. The process engages participants in storytelling, future planning and design. PD is a multifaceted assessment tool that helps explore more accurately clinical requirements and patient perspectives in telehealth.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementing Pharmacogenomics in Europe: Design and Implementation Strategy of the Ubiquitous Pharmacogenomics Consortium.
Abstract: Despite scientific and clinical advances in the field of pharmacogenomics (PGx), application into routine care remains limited. Opportunely, several implementation studies and programs have been initiated over recent years. This article presents an overview of these studies and identifies current research gaps. Importantly, one such gap is the undetermined collective clinical utility of implementing a panel of PGx-markers into routine care, because the evidence base is currently limited to specific, individual drug-gene pairs. The Ubiquitous Pharmacogenomics (U-PGx) Consortium, which has been funded by the European Commission's Horizon-2020 program, aims to address this unmet need. In a prospective, block-randomized, controlled clinical study (PREemptive Pharmacogenomic testing for prevention of Adverse drug REactions [PREPARE]), pre-emptive genotyping of a panel of clinically relevant PGx-markers, for which guidelines are available, will be implemented across healthcare institutions in seven European countries. The impact on patient outcomes and cost-effectiveness will be investigated. The program is unique in its multicenter, multigene, multidrug, multi-ethnic, and multihealthcare system approach.
Label Included: 0

Title: ICT and the future of healthcare: Aspects of pervasive health monitoring.
Abstract: Along with the digital revolution, information and communication technology applications are currently transforming the delivery of health and social care services. This paper investigates prevailing opinions toward future technology-based healthcare solutions among Austrian healthcare professionals. During a biphasic online Delphi survey, panelists rated expected outcomes of two future scenarios describing pervasive health monitoring applications. Experts perceived that the scenarios were highly innovative, but only moderately desirable, and that their implementation could especially improve patients' knowledge, quality of healthcare, and living standard. Contrarily, monetary aspects, technical prerequisites, and data security were identified as key obstacles. We further compared the impact of professional affiliation. Clearly, opinions toward pervasive healthcare differed between the interest groups, medical professionals, patient advocates, and administrative personnel. These data suggest closer collaborations between stakeholder groups to harmonize differences in expectations regarding pervasive health monitoring.
Label Included: 0

Title: Teleretinography into diabetes integrated care: an Italian experience.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Integrated care, by allowing information exchange among health professionals, improves outcomes and favours a reduction in hospital admission in diabetes. Retinal complications can be sight-threatening, and diabetic patients often miss the suggested yearly clinical examination.
METHODS: Teleretinography can be easily performed in patients attending Diabetes Clinics: images are sent to a remote ophthalmologist, grading and instructions are received and forwarded to General Practitioners by a dedicated software.
RESULTS: We here report the results of teleretinography performed in our Diabetes Clinic in 362 patients missing the yearly fundus examination: 253 patients showed no diabetic retinopathy, 86 a mild form, and 23 needed referral to hospital settings.
CONCLUSIONS: Teleretinography is a user-friendly, time-saving and cost-effective technique, easily integrable into integrated care, allowing a better adherence to guidelines.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effect of community groups and mobile phone messages on the prevention and control of diabetes in rural Bangladesh: study protocol for a three-arm cluster randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Increasing rates of type 2 diabetes mellitus place a substantial burden on health care services, communities, families and individuals living with the disease or at risk of developing it. Estimates of the combined prevalence of intermediate hyperglycaemia and diabetes in Bangladesh vary, and can be as high as 30% of the adult population. Despite such high prevalence, awareness and control of diabetes and its risk factors are limited. Prevention and control of diabetes and its complications demand increased awareness and action of individuals and communities, with positive influences on behaviours and lifestyle choices. In this study, we will test the effect of two different interventions on diabetes occurrence and its risk factors in rural Bangladesh.
METHODS/DESIGN: A three-arm cluster randomised controlled trial of mobile health (mHealth) and participatory community group interventions will be conducted in four rural upazillas in Faridpur District, Bangladesh. Ninety-six clusters (villages) will be randomised to receive either the mHealth intervention or the participatory community group intervention, or be assigned to the control arm. In the mHealth arm, enrolled individuals will receive twice-weekly voice messages sent to their mobile phone about prevention and control of diabetes. In the participatory community group arm, facilitators will initiate a series of monthly group meetings for men and women, progressing through a Participatory Learning and Action cycle whereby group members and communities identify, prioritise and tackle problems associated with diabetes and the risk of developing diabetes. Both interventions will run for 18 months. The primary outcomes of the combined prevalence of intermediate hyperglycaemia and diabetes and the cumulative 2-year incidence of diabetes among individuals identified as having intermediate hyperglycaemia at baseline will be evaluated through baseline and endline sample surveys of permanent residents aged 30 years or older in each of the study clusters. Data on blood glucose level, blood pressure, body mass index and hip-to-waist ratio will be gathered through physical measurements by trained fieldworkers. Demographic and socioeconomic data, as well as data on knowledge of diabetes, chronic disease risk factor prevalence and quality of life, will be gathered through interviews with sampled respondents.
DISCUSSION: This study will increase our understanding of diabetes and other non-communicable disease burdens and risk factors in rural Bangladesh. By documenting and evaluating the delivery, impact and cost-effectiveness of participatory community groups and mobile phone voice messaging, study findings will provide evidence on how population-level strategies of community mobilisation and mHealth can be implemented to prevent and control noncommunicable diseases and risk factors in this population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN41083256 . Registered on 30 Mar 2016 (Retrospectively Registered).
TRIAL ACRONYM: D-Magic: Diabetes Mellitus - Action through Groups or mobile Information for better Control.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Men's Safer Sex project: intervention development and feasibility randomised controlled trial of an interactive digital intervention to increase condom use in men.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: This report details the development of the Men's Safer Sex website and the results of a feasibility randomised controlled trial (RCT), health economic assessment and qualitative evaluation.
OBJECTIVES: (1) Develop the Men's Safer Sex website to address barriers to condom use; (2) determine the best design for an online RCT; (3) inform the methods for collecting and analysing health economic data; (4) assess the Sexual Quality of Life (SQoL) questionnaire and European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions, three-level version (EQ-5D-3L) to calculate quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs); and (5) explore clinic staff and men's views of online research methodology.
METHODS: (1) Website development: we combined evidence from research literature and the views of experts (n = 18) and male clinic users (n = 43); (2) feasibility RCT: 159 heterosexually active men were recruited from three sexual health clinics and were randomised by computer to the Men's Safer Sex website plus usual care (n = 84) or usual clinic care only (n = 75). Men were invited to complete online questionnaires at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months, and sexually transmitted infection (STI) diagnoses were recorded from clinic notes at 12 months; (3) health economic evaluation: we investigated the impact of using different questionnaires to calculate utilities and QALYs (the EQ-5D-3L and SQoL questionnaire), and compared different methods to collect resource use; and (4) qualitative evaluation: thematic analysis of interviews with 11 male trial participants and nine clinic staff, as well as free-text comments from online outcome questionnaires.
RESULTS: (1) Software errors and clinic Wi-Fi access presented significant challenges. Response rates for online questionnaires were poor but improved with larger vouchers (from 36% with £10 to 50% with £30). Clinical records were located for 94% of participants for STI diagnoses. There were no group differences in condomless sex with female partners [incidence rate ratio (IRR) 1.01, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.52 to 1.96]. New STI diagnoses were recorded for 8.8% (7/80) of the intervention group and 13.0% (9/69) of the control group (IRR 0.75, 95% CI 0.29 to 1.89). (2) Health-care resource data were more complete using patient files than questionnaires. The probability that the intervention is cost-effective is sensitive to the source of data used and whether or not data on intended pregnancies are included. (3) The pilot RCT fitted well around clinical activities but 37% of the intervention group did not see the Men's Safer Sex website and technical problems were frustrating. Men's views of the Men's Safer Sex website and research procedures were largely positive.
CONCLUSIONS: It would be feasible to conduct a large-scale RCT using clinic STI diagnoses as a primary outcome; however, technical errors and a poor response rate limited the collection of online self-reported outcomes. The next steps are (1) to optimise software for online trials, (2) to find the best ways to integrate digital health promotion with clinical services, (3) to develop more precise methods for collecting resource use data and (4) to work out how to overcome barriers to digital intervention testing and implementation in the NHS.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN18649610.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 20, No. 91. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: ePrescribing: Reducing Costs through In-Class Therapeutic Interchange.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Spending on pharmaceuticals in the US reached $373.9 billion in 2014. Therapeutic interchange offers potential medication cost savings by replacing a prescribed drug for an equally efficacious therapeutic alternative.
METHODS: Hard-stop therapeutic interchange recommendation alerts were developed for four medication classes (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, serotonin receptor agonists, intranasal steroid sprays, and proton-pump inhibitors) in an electronic prescription-writing tool for outpatient prescriptions. Using prescription data from January 2012 to June 2015, the Compliance Ratio (CR) was calculated by dividing the number of prescriptions with recommended therapeutic interchange medications by the number of prescriptions with non-recommended medications to measure effectiveness. To explore potential cost savings, prescription data and medication costs were analyzed for the 45,000 Vanderbilt Employee Health Plan members.
RESULTS: For all medication classes, significant improvements were demonstrated - the CR improved (proton-pump inhibitors 2.8 to 5.32, nasal steroids 2.44 to 8.16, statins 2.06 to 5.51, and serotonin receptor agonists 0.8 to 1.52). Quarterly savings through the four therapeutic interchange interventions combined exceeded $200,000 with an estimated annual savings for the health plan of $800,000, or more than $17 per member.
CONCLUSION: A therapeutic interchange clinical decision support tool at the point of prescribing resulted in increased compliance with recommendations for outpatient prescriptions while producing substantial cost savings to the Vanderbilt Employee Health Plan - $17.77 per member per year. Therapeutic interchange rules require rational targeting, appropriate governance, and vigilant content updates.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telehealthcare for heart failure: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Several heart failure studies have shown promising results for implementing telehealthcare. These studies have led to clinical and political interest in telehealthcare as a way to improve heart failure outcomes and lower costs. However, there is a need for large-scale clinical trials with cost-effectiveness assessments.
METHODS/DESIGN: The present study is known as the TeleCare North Heart Failure Trial in Denmark. We are studying the health effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a telehealth (Telekit) solution compared with usual care for patients with heart failure. The design is a multicenter, two-arm, parallel-group, nonblinded, superiority randomized controlled trial. Outpatient healthcare centers will be responsible for recruiting eligible participants (600 participants are expected) for the trial in the geographic area of the North Denmark Region. Participants are qualified for inclusion if they have been diagnosed according to national guidelines and are categorized in New York Heart Association class 2, 3, or 4. Patients must have a permanent residence and be motivated to use telehealth care. The primary outcomes are changes in health-related quality of life (assessed using the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire, the EuroQol EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, and the Short Form Health Survey [SF-36]) and in the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio measured from baseline to follow-up. The secondary outcomes are changes in mortality and in physiological indicators such as blood pressure, pulse, and weight.
DISCUSSION: The TeleCare North Heart Failure Trial is intended to improve the international evidence base for the health effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telehealthcare for patients with heart failure. The expectation is that the results of the trial can be generalized to all municipalities in Denmark and serve as an inspiration for further international research.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov ( NCT02860013 ). Registered on 28 July 2016.
Label Included: 0

Title: Parent-implemented home therapy programmes for speech and language: a systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Parent-delivered home programmes are frequently used to remediate speech and language difficulties in young children. However, the evidence base for this service delivery model is limited.
AIMS: The aim of this systematic review is to investigate the effectiveness of parent-implemented home programmes in facilitating the development of children's speech and language skills, and to evaluate the cost-effectiveness and feasibility of this service delivery method.
METHODS & PROCEDURES: A systematic search of the PsycINFO, CINAHL and ERIC databases was conducted. Quality appraisal of individual studies was conducted. Findings from each of the studies were then integrated to report on outcomes for the child, the parent and the service.
OUTCOMES & RESULTS: There is preliminary evidence that home programmes can lead to growth in a child's speech and language skills and are more effective than no intervention, provided the home programmes are used with high dosage rates and direct parent training.
CONCLUSIONS & IMPLICATIONS: Home programmes are a potentially useful service delivery model, but caution should be exercised when considering their use to address broader service delivery challenges. Further high-level evidence is needed across all facets of this service delivery model.
Label Included: 0

Title: Annual Research Review: Digital health interventions for children and young people with mental health problems - a systematic and meta-review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Digital health interventions (DHIs), including computer-assisted therapy, smartphone apps and wearable technologies, are heralded as having enormous potential to improve uptake and accessibility, efficiency, clinical effectiveness and personalisation of mental health interventions. It is generally assumed that DHIs will be preferred by children and young people (CYP) given their ubiquitous digital activity. However, it remains uncertain whether: DHIs for CYP are clinically and cost-effective, CYP prefer DHIs to traditional services, DHIs widen access and how they should be evaluated and adopted by mental health services. This review evaluates the evidence-base for DHIs and considers the key research questions and approaches to evaluation and implementation.
METHODS: We conducted a meta-review of scoping, narrative, systematic or meta-analytical reviews investigating the effectiveness of DHIs for mental health problems in CYP. We also updated a systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of DHIs for CYP published in the last 3 years.
RESULTS: Twenty-one reviews were included in the meta-review. The findings provide some support for the clinical benefit of DHIs, particularly computerised cognitive behavioural therapy (cCBT), for depression and anxiety in adolescents and young adults. The systematic review identified 30 new RCTs evaluating DHIs for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism, anxiety, depression, psychosis, eating disorders and PTSD. The benefits of DHIs in managing ADHD, autism, psychosis and eating disorders are uncertain, and evidence is lacking regarding the cost-effectiveness of DHIs.
CONCLUSIONS: Key methodological limitations make it difficult to draw definitive conclusions from existing clinical trials of DHIs. Issues include variable uptake and engagement with DHIs, lack of an agreed typology/taxonomy for DHIs, small sample sizes, lack of blinded outcome assessment, combining different comparators, short-term follow-up and poor specification of the level of human support. Research and practice recommendations are presented that address the key research questions and methodological issues for the evaluation and clinical implementation of DHIs for CYP.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Evaluation of Dried Blood Spot Home Sampling as Compared to Conventional Sampling for Therapeutic Drug Monitoring in Children.
Abstract: Dried blood spot (DBS) sampling for the purpose of therapeutic drug monitoring can be an attractive alternative for conventional blood sampling, especially in children. This study aimed to compare all costs involved in conventional sampling versus DBS home sampling in two pediatric populations: renal transplant patients and hemato-oncology patients. Total costs were computed from a societal perspective by adding up healthcare cost, patient related costs and costs related to loss of productivity of the caregiver. Switching to DBS home sampling was associated with a cost reduction of 43% for hemato-oncology patients (€277 to €158) and 61% for nephrology patients (€259 to €102) from a societal perspective (total costs) per blood draw. From a healthcare perspective, costs reduced with 7% for hemato-oncology patients and with 21% for nephrology patients. Total savings depend on the number of hospital visits that can be avoided by using home sampling instead of conventional sampling.
Label Included: 0

Title: Six-year prevalence and incidence of diabetic retinopathy and cost-effectiveness of tele-ophthalmology in Manitoba.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diabetic retinopathy (DR) tele-ophthalmology screening program in Manitoba to determine prevalence and incidence of DR, as well as to estimate the program's cost-effectiveness.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 4676 patients with type 2 diabetes examined 9334 times from 2007 to 2013.
METHODS: Focused ophthalmic histories were recorded and examinations were performed by trained nurses, including visual acuities, intraocular pressure, and mydriatic 7 standard field stereoscopic fundus photography. Images were evaluated by retinal specialists according to the Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study criteria. DR prevalence and incidence were then calculated during the study period. Cost-effectiveness was estimated by comparing the cost of running the tele-ophthalmology program compared with the cost of screening the same volume of patients in-office.
RESULTS: The average prevalence of any DR in each year was 25.1%. The cumulative incidence of DR across 6 years was 17.1% (95% CI, 15.4%-18.7%). The average savings per tele-ophthalmology examination was $1007.
CONCLUSIONS: DR is highly prevalent among the studied population. Tele-ophthalmology provides a cost-effective means of monitoring patients as well as identifying new or treatable disease.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Principles for the evaluation of telemedicine applications: Results of a systematic review and consensus process].
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The limited number of telemedicine applications being transferred to standard medical care in Germany may to some extent be explained by deficits in the current evaluation practice. Effectiveness and cost effectiveness can only be demonstrated to decision makers and potential users with methodologically sound and fully published evaluations. There is a lack of well-founded and mandatory standards for adequate, comparable evaluations of telemedicine applications.
METHODS: As part of the project CCS Telehealth Eastern Saxony (CCS THOS), a systematic review on evaluation concepts for telemedicine applications (search period until September 2014, databases Medline, Embase, HTA-Database, DARE, NHS EED) as well as an additional selective literature search were conducted. Suggestions for evaluation fundamentals were derived from the results. These suggestions were subjected to a formal consensus process (nominal group process) with relevant stakeholder groups (healthcare payers, healthcare providers, health policy representatives, researchers).
RESULTS: 19 papers were included in the systematic review. In accordance with the predefined inclusion criteria, each presented an evaluation concept for telemedicine applications that was based upon a systematic review and/or a consensus process. Via a formal consensus process, the suggestions for evaluation principles derived from the review and the selective literature search (23 papers) resulted in ten agreed evaluation principles. Eight of them were unanimously agreed upon, two were arrived at with one abstention each. The principles enclose criteria for the planning, conduct and reporting of telemedicine evaluations. Adherence to them is obligatory for users of the telemedical infrastructure provided by CCS THOS. Furthermore, right from the beginning the intention was very much for these principles to be seized upon by other projects and initiatives.
CONCLUSIONS: The agreed evaluation principles for telemedicine applications are the first in Germany to be based both upon evidence and consensus. Due to the methodology of development, they have a strong scientific and health policy legitimation. Therefore, and because of their general applicability, adherence to these principles beyond the context of the telemedicine platform developed within CCS THOS is recommended, namely throughout the German telemedicine scene.
Label Included: 0

Title: Societal implications of medical insurance coverage for imatinib as first-line treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia in China: a cost-effectiveness analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Imatinib (Glivec) and nilotinib (Tasigna) have been covered by critical disease insurance in Jiangsu province of China since 2013, which changed local treatment patterns and outcomes of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). This study evaluated the long-term cost-effectiveness of insurance coverage with imatinib as the first-line treatment for patients with CML in China from a societal perspective.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model based on previously published and real-world evidence was applied to simulate and evaluate the lifetime clinical and economic outcomes associated with CML treatments before and after imatinib was covered by medical insurance. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated with both costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) discounted at 3% annually. Different assumptions of treatment benefits and costs were taken to address uncertainties and were tested with sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In base case analysis, both cost and effectiveness of CML treatments increased after imatinib was covered by the medical insurance; on average, the incremental QALY and cost were 5.5 and ¥277,030 per patient in lifetime, respectively. The ICER of insurance coverage with imatinib was ¥50,641, which is less than the GDP per capita of China. Monte Carlo simulation resulted in the estimate of 100% probability that the insurance coverage of imatinib is cost-effective. Total cost was substantially saved at 5 years after patients initiated imatinib treatment with insurance coverage compared to no insurance coverage, the saved cost at 5 years was ¥99,565, which included the cost savings from both direct (e.g. cost of bone marrow or stem cell transplant) and indirect costs (e.g. productivity loss of patients and care-givers).
CONCLUSIONS: The insurance coverage of imatinib is very cost-effective in China, according to the local cost and clinical data in Jiangsu province. More importantly, the insurance coverage of imatinib and nilotinib have changed the treatment patterns of CML patients, thus dramatically increasing life expectancy and quality-of-life (QoL) saving on productivity losses for both CML patients and their caregivers.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of a 12-Month Pilot of Long-Term and Temporary Assisted Peritoneal Dialysis.
Abstract: ♦ BACKGROUND: Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is challenging for patients with functional limitations, and assisted PD can support these patients, but previous reports of assisted PD have not examined the role of temporary assisted PD and had difficulty identifying adequate comparator cohorts. ♦ METHODS: Peritoneal Dialysis Assist (PDA), a 12-month pilot of long-term and temporary assisted PD was completed in multiple PD centers in British Columbia, Canada. Continuous cycler PD (CCPD) patients were identified for PDA by standardized criteria, and service could be long-term or temporary/respite. The PDA program provided daily assistance with cycler dismantle and setup, but patients remained responsible for cycler connections and treatment decisions. Outcomes were compared against both the general CCPD population and patients who met PDA criteria but were not enrolled (PDA-eligible). ♦ RESULTS: Fifty-three PDA patients had an 88% 1-year death- and transplant-censored technique survival that was similar to the general CCPD cohort (84%) and PDA-eligible cohort (86%). The PDA cohort had lower peritonitis rates (0.18 episodes/patient-year vs 0.22 and 0.36, respectively), but higher hospitalization (55% vs 34% and 35%, respectively). Long-term PDA cost approximately CDN$15,000/year in addition to existing dialysis costs. A total of 8/11 respite PDA patients (73%) returned to self-care PD after a median PDA use of 29 days, which costs $1,250/patient. ♦ CONCLUSIONS: Peritoneal Dialysis Assist provides effective support to functionally-limited CCPD patients and yields acceptable clinical outcomes. The program costs less than transfer to HD or long-term care, which represents cost minimization for failing self-care PD patients. Respite PDA provides effective temporary support; most patients returned to self-care PD and service was cost-effective compared with alternatives of hospitalization or transfer to HD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Single-Center Retrospective Evaluation of Inhaled Corticosteroid Use for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Exacerbation Patients Receiving Systemic Corticosteroids.
Abstract: Purpose: To determine the frequency of inappropriate inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) therapy when it is prescribed concurrently with systemic corticosteroids; to identify cost-savings potential in the setting of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations. Methods: Patients admitted to 1 of 8 hospital locations utilizing an integrated electronic health record within the health system for COPD exacerbations treated with systemic corticosteroids (equivalent to at least 30 mg of oral prednisone) between July 1, 2013 and June 30, 2014 were included in a retrospective chart review. Endpoints assessed included number of ICS, with or without long-acting beta-2 agonists (LABA), respiratory medications potentially wasted due to overlap therapy with systemic corticosteroids, as well as overall cost attributed to drug product, administration products, and respiratory therapy labor cost from potentially inappropriate overlap therapy. Results were extrapolated based on the number of admissions within the specified time period. Length of stay data were also compared between the 2 groups (overlap therapy vs no overlap therapy) to determine whether overlap therapy results in a reduction of hospital stay. Results: A total of 10,710 admissions were identified and 74 charts were randomly identified for review. Forty-six (62%) patients received at least one dose of overlapping ICS or ICS/LABA. One hundred forty-two nebulized budesonide vials were wasted along with 43 ICS or ICS/LABA inhalers. A total cost of $8,152.75 was attributed to drug product, administration products, and labor cost. Extrapolating to the 10,710 admissions identified, there would potentially be 20,551 wasted budesonide vials and 6,223 wasted ICS or ICS/LABA inhalers, resulting in an estimated annual cost savings of $1,180,090.03 for the health system. Additionally, length of stay was shorter in the group not receiving overlap therapy compared to the group receiving overlap therapy, but it was not statistically significant (6.8 ± 3.3 days vs 7.3 ± 4.8 days; p = .54). Conclusion: Significant cost savings could be accomplished through intervention and appropriate utilization of ICS or ICS/LABA therapy in patients admitted for COPD exacerbations treated with systemic corticosteroids.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility and cost-effectiveness of a multidisciplinary home-telehealth intervention programme to reduce falls among elderly discharged from hospital: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Fall incidents are the third cause of chronic disablement in elderly according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Recent meta-analyses shows that a multifactorial falls risk assessment and management programmes are effective in all older population studied. However, the application of these programmes may not be the same in all National health care setting and, consequently, needs to be evaluated by cost-effectiveness studies before to plan this intervention in regular care. In Italy structured collaboration between hospital staff and primary care is generally lacking and the role of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) in a fall prevention programme at home has never been explored.
METHODS AND DESIGN: This will be a two-group randomised controlled trial aiming to evaluate the effects of a home-based intervention programme delivered by a multidisciplinary health team. The home tele-management programme, previously adopted in our Institute for chronic patients, will be proposed to elderly people affected by chronic diseases at high risk of falling at hospital discharge. The programme will involve the hospital staff and will be managed thanks to the collaboration between hospital and primary care setting. Patients will be followed for 6 months after hospital discharge. A nurse-tutor telephone support and tele-exercise will characterize the intervention programme. People in the control group will receive usual care. The main outcome measure of the study will be the percentage of patients sustaining a fall during the 6-months follow-up period. An economic evaluation will be performed from a societal perspective and will involve calculating cost-effectiveness and cost utility ratios.
DISCUSSION: To date, no adequately powered studies have investigated the effect of the Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) in a home fall prevention program. We aim the program will be feasible in terms of intensity and characteristics, but particularly in terms of patient and provider compliance. The results of the economic evaluation could provide information about the cost-effectiveness of the intervention and the effects on quality of life. In case of shown effectiveness and cost effectiveness, the program could be implemented into health services settings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov ( NCT02487589 ).
Label Included: 0

Title: The second Randomised Evaluation of the Effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and Acceptability of Computerised Therapy (REEACT-2) trial: does the provision of telephone support enhance the effectiveness of computer-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy? A randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Computerised cognitive behaviour therapy (cCBT) is an efficient form of therapy potentially improving access to psychological care. Indirect evidence suggests that the uptake and effectiveness of cCBT can be increased if facilitated by telephone, but this is not routinely offered in the NHS.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of telephone-facilitated free-to-use cCBT [e.g. MoodGYM (National Institute for Mental Health Research, Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia)] with minimally supported cCBT.
DESIGN: This study was a multisite, pragmatic, open, two-arm, parallel-group randomised controlled trial with a concurrent economic evaluation.
SETTING: Participants were recruited from GP practices in Bristol, Manchester, Sheffield, Hull and the north-east of England.
PARTICIPANTS: Potential participants were eligible to participate in the trial if they were adults with depression scoring ≥ 10 on the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9).
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomised using a computer-generated random number sequence to receive minimally supported cCBT or telephone-facilitated cCBT. Participants continued with usual general practitioner care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was self-reported symptoms of depression, as assessed by the PHQ-9 at 4 months post randomisation.
SECONDARY OUTCOMES: Secondary outcomes were depression at 12 months and anxiety, somatoform complaints, health utility (as assessed by the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions questionnaire) and resource use at 4 and 12 months.
RESULTS: Clinical effectiveness: 182 participants were randomised to minimally supported cCBT and 187 participants to telephone-facilitated cCBT. There was a difference in the severity of depression at 4 and 12 months, with lower levels in the telephone-facilitated group. The odds of no longer being depressed (defined as a PHQ-9 score of < 10) at 4 months were twice as high in the telephone-facilitated cCBT group [odds ratio (OR) 2.05, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.23 to 3.42]. The benefit of telephone-facilitated cCBT was no longer significant at 12 months (OR 1.63, 95% CI 0.98 to 2.71). At 4 months the between-group difference in PHQ-9 scores was 1.9 (95% CI 0.5 to 3.3). At 12 months the results still favoured telephone-facilitated cCBT but were no longer statistically significant, with a difference in PHQ-9 score of 0.9 (95% CI -0.5 to 2.3). When considering the whole follow-up period, telephone-facilitated cCBT was asssociated with significantly lower PHQ-9 scores than minimally supported cCBT (mean difference -1.41, 95% CI -2.63 to -0.17; p = 0.025). There was a significant improvement in anxiety scores over the trial period (between-group difference 1.1, 95% CI 0.1 to 2.3; p = 0.037). In the case of somatic complaints (assessed using the Patient Health Questionnaire-15), there was a borderline statistically significant difference over the trial period (between-group difference 1.1, 95% CI 0.0 to 1.8; p = 0.051). There were gains in quality-adjusted life-years at reduced cost when telephone facilitation was added to MoodGYM. However, the results were subject to uncertainty.
CONCLUSIONS: The results showed short-term benefits from the addition of telephone facilitation to cCBT. The effect was small to moderate and comparable with that of other primary care psychological interventions. Telephone facilitation should be considered when offering cCBT for depression.
LIMITATIONS: Participants' depression was assessed with the PHQ-9, cCBT use was quite low and there was a slightly greater than anticipated loss to follow-up.
FUTURE RESEARCH RECOMMENDATIONS: Improve the acceptability of cCBT and its capacity to address coexisting disorders. Large-scale pragmatic trials of cCBT with bibliotherapy and telephone-based interventions are required.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN55310481.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 20, No. 89. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Social capital and transaction cost on co-creating IT value towards inter-organizational EMR exchange.
Abstract: This study adopts social capital theory and transaction cost theory to explore the feasibility of an inter-organizational cross-hospital electronic medical records (EMR) exchange system, and the factors that affect its adoption. The concept of value co-creation is also used to assess such a system, and its influence on the performance of participating medical institutes. This research collected 330 valid paper-based questionnaires from the medical staff of various institutes. The results showed that social interaction ties and shared vision positively affected medical institutes' willingness to adopt the EMR exchange system, while asset specificity and uncertainty increased the related transaction costs. With a greater willingness to invest in relation-specific assets and to meet the related transaction costs, this behavior lead to an increase in medical IT value, as well as better results for the related medical institutes, medical staff, and patients. Therefore, this study suggests that such institutes encourage their medical staff to participate in seminars or reunions in order to develop their professional and social networks, and set up clear schedules and desire for expected effects when introducing the cross-hospital EMR exchange system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Blended CBT versus face-to-face CBT: a randomised non-inferiority trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Internet based cognitive behavioural therapy (iCBT) has been demonstrated to be cost- and clinically effective. There is a need, however, for increased therapist contact for some patient groups. Combining iCBT with traditional face-to-face (ftf) consultations in a blended format (B-CBT) may produce a new treatment format with multiple benefits from both traditional CBT and iCBT such as individual adaptation, lower costs than traditional therapy, wide geographical and temporal availability, and possibly lower threshold to implementation. The primary aim of the present study is to compare directly the clinical effectiveness of B-CBT with face-to-face CBT for adult major depressive disorder.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study is designed as a two arm randomised controlled non-inferiority trial comparing blended CBT for adult depression with treatment as usual (TAU). In the blended condition six sessions of ftf CBT is alternated with six to eight online modules (NoDep). TAU is defined as 12 sessions of ftf CBT. The primary outcome is symptomatic change of depressive symptoms on the patient-health questionnaire (PHQ-9). Additionally, the study will include an economic evaluation. All participants must be 18 years of age or older and meet the diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorder according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental disorders 4th edition. Participants are randomised on an individual level by a researcher not involved in the project. The primary outcome is analysed by regressing the three-month follow-up PHQ-9 data on the baseline PHQ-9 score and a treatment group indicator using ancova. A sample size of 130 in two balanced groups will yield a power of at least 80% to detect standardised mean differences above 0.5 on a normally distributed variable.
DISCUSSION: This study design will compare B-CBT and ftf CBT in a concise and direct manner with only a minimal of the variance explained by differences in therapeutic content. On the other hand, while situated in routine care, ecological validity is somewhat compromised by the controlled manner in which the study is conducted.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02796573 . Registered June 1st 2016. Currently recruiting participants.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-benefit analysis of telehealth in pre-hospital care.
Abstract: Objective There has been very little use of telehealth in pre-hospital emergency medical services (EMS), yet the potential exists for this technology to transform the current delivery model. In this study, we explore the costs and benefits of one large telehealth EMS initiative. Methods Using a case-control study design and both micro- and gross-costing data from the Houston Fire Department EMS electronic patient care record system, we conducted a cost-benefit analysis (CBA) comparing costs with potential savings associated with patients treated through a telehealth-enabled intervention. The intervention consisted of telehealth-based consultation between the 911 patient and an EMS physician, to evaluate and triage the necessity for patient transport to a hospital emergency department (ED). Patients with non-urgent, primary care-related conditions were then scheduled and transported by alternative means to an affiliated primary care clinic. We measured CBA as both total cost savings and cost per ED visit averted, in US Dollars ($USD). Results In total, 5570 patients were treated over the first full 12 months with a telehealth-enabled care model. We found a 6.7% absolute reduction in potentially medically unnecessary ED visits, and a 44-minute reduction in total ambulance back-in-service times. The average cost for a telehealth patient was $167, which was a statistically significantly $103 less than the control group ( p < .0001). The programme produced a $928,000 annual cost savings from the societal perspective, or $2468 cost savings per ED visit averted (benefit). Conclusion Patient care enabled by telehealth in a pre-hospital environment, is a more cost effective alternative compared to the traditional EMS 'treat and transport to ED' model.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an in-home respite care program in supporting informal caregivers of people with dementia: design of a comparative study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Frequent hospitalization and permanent nursing home placement not only affect the well-being of persons with dementia, but also place great financial strain on society. Therefore, it is important to create effective strategies to support informal caregivers so that they can continue to perform their demanding role. Preliminary qualitative evidence suggests that community-based respite services can actually be important for caregivers, and that the level of evidence should be further established in terms of effectiveness. Therefore, a comparative study to assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an in-home respite care program will be initiated.
METHODS: This manuscript described a quasi-experimental study to assess (cost)-effectiveness of an in-home respite care program to support informal caregivers of persons with dementia.
STUDY POPULATION: 124 informal caregivers and persons with dementia will be included in the intervention group and will receive an in-home respite care program by an organization called Baluchon Alzheimer. 248 dyads will be included in the control group and will receive standard dementia care. The primary outcome is caregiver burden. Secondary outcomes are: quality of life of caregivers, frequency of behavioral problems of persons with dementia and the reactions of caregivers to those problems, intention to institutionalize the care-recipient, time to nursing home placement, resource use of the care-recipient, and willingness to pay for in-home respite care. When the trial demonstrates a difference in outcomes between both groups, within-trial and modeled cost-effectiveness analyses will be conducted in a separate economic evaluation plan to evaluate possible cost-effectiveness of the in-home respite care program compared to the control group receiving standard dementia care. Finally, the model based cost-effectiveness analyses will allow to extrapolate effects over a longer time horizon than the duration of the trial.
DISCUSSION: This study will have great added value because to date no studies measured effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an in-home respite care program of the Baluchon type. Results of this trial can thus give much more insight in potential benefits and disadvantages of community-based respite care. Conclusions based on this trial can help policy-makers in elaborating future directions of dementia care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier NCT02630446 .
Label Included: 0

Title: Lessons Learned from Mississippi's Telehealth Approach to Health Disparities.
Abstract: Many people see telemedicine as a solution to the nation's health disparities and in Mississippi as a solution to our last place in health. More than 13 years ago, the University of Mississippi Medical Center developed a successful TelEmergency program that saved rural Critical Access Hospitals and now provides telehealth services throughout the state. This occurred without acrimony because of partnerships that the University of Mississippi Medical Center developed with telecommunications companies, state government, health professions' licensure boards, and private donors. Today, the telemedicine market is exploding across the country with the entry of for-profit corporations into the medical market. These corporations often are more inclined to work with legislators rather than physicians, and some physician groups have attempted to limit their expansion. With the future of telemedicine now determined in part by the courts, rather than the providers, new pitfalls have arisen. The Mississippi experience may be helpful in navigating this new territory.
Label Included: 0

Title: Does Primary Care Model Effect Healthcare at the End of Life? A Population-Based Retrospective Cohort Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Comprehensive primary care may enhance patient experience at end of life.
OBJECTIVE: To examine whether belonging to different models of primary care is associated with end-of-life healthcare use and outcomes.
DESIGN: Retrospective population cohort study, using health administrative databases to describe health services and costs in the last six months of life across three primary care models: enrolled to a physician remunerated mainly by capitation, with incentives for comprehensive care and access in some to allied health practitioners (Capitation); remunerated mainly from fee-for-service (FFS) with smaller incentives for comprehensive care (Enhanced FFS); and not enrolled, seeing physicians remunerated solely through FFS (Traditional FFS).
SETTING: People who died from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2013 in Ontario, Canada.
MEASURES: Health service utilization, costs, and place of death.
RESULTS: Approximately two-thirds (62.7%) of decedents had more contact with a specialist than family physician. Those in Capitation models were more likely to have the majority of physician services provided by a family physician (44.9% vs. 38.6% in Enhanced FFS and 34.3% in Traditional FFS) and received more home care service days (mean 27.2 vs. 24.2 in Enhanced FFS and 21.7 in Traditional FFS). And 22.5% had a home visit by a family physician. Controlling for potential confounders, decedents spent significantly more days in an institution in Enhanced FFS (1.1, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.9-1.5) and Traditional FFS (2.2, 95% CI: 1.8-2.6) than in Capitation.
CONCLUSION: Decedents in comprehensive primary care models received more care in the community and spent less time in institutions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Challenges in the uptake of telemedicine in dentistry.
Abstract: With the availability of oral care services very unevenly distributed in rural or remote areas, underserved people seek oral care from non-dental care providers. Against this backdrop, and coupled with the decreasing cost of and innovations in technology, there is a growing interest in the adoption of telemedicine services. Regardless of the lack of good-quality evidence supporting the cost-effectiveness of telemedicine, evidence already indicates that telemedicine, even with extra costs, helps in reducing the inequalities in the provision of primary health care. Telemedicine has the potential to overcome geographical barriers and contribute to closing the rural-urban healthcare gap in Australia and many other regions. Although research examining different teledentistry applications has found that this technology can be successfully integrated into different settings, there is little active teledentistry practice in Australia. The integration of telemedicine into the mainstream oral health system is a complex and collaborative process in which numerous factors at individual, infrastructure and organisational levels are involved. Addressing the barriers that delay the implementation of a teledentistry service can provide valuable insights into its lack of acceptance and establish an evidence base that can help to inform future decisions about the benefits of teledentistry.
Label Included: 0

Title: A EUropean study on effectiveness and sustainability of current Cardiac Rehabilitation programmes in the Elderly: Design of the EU-CaRE randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is an evidence-based intervention to increase survival and quality of life. Yet studies consistently show that elderly patients are less frequently referred to CR, show less uptake and more often drop out of CR programmes.
DESIGN: The European study on effectiveness and sustainability of current cardiac rehabilitation programmes in the elderly (EU-CaRE) project consists of an observational study and an open prospective, investigator-initiated multicentre randomised controlled trial (RCT) involving mobile telemonitoring guided CR (mCR).
OBJECTIVE: The aim of EU-CaRE is to map the efficiency of current CR of the elderly in Europe, and to investigate whether mCR is an effective alternative in terms of efficacy, adherence and sustainability.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The EU-CaRE study includes patients aged 65 years or older with ischaemic heart disease or who have undergone heart valve surgery. A total of 1760 patients participating in existing CR programmes in eight regions of Europe will be included. Of patients declining regular CR, 238 will be included in the RCT and randomised in two study arms. The experimental group (mCR) will receive a personalised home-based programme while the control group will receive no advice or coaching throughout the study period. Outcomes will be assessed after the end of CR and at 12 months follow-up. The primary outcome is VO2peak and secondary outcomes include variables describing CR uptake, adherence, efficacy and sustainability.
CONCLUSION: The study will provide important information to improve CR in the elderly. The EU-CaRE RCT is the first European multicentre study of mCR as an alternative for elderly patients not attending usual CR.
Label Included: 0

Title: eHealth in cardiovascular medicine: A clinical update.
Abstract: Demographic changes, progress in medicine technology and regional problems in providing healthcare to low density populations are posing great challenges to our healthcare systems. Rapid progress in computer sciences and information technologies have a great impact on the way healthcare will be delivered in the near future. This article describes opportunities and challenges of eHealth and telemedicine in the framework of our health systems and, in particular, in the context of today's cardiology services. The most promising applications of eHealth and telemedicine include: (a) prevention and lifestyle interventions; (b) chronic disease management including hypertension, diabetes and heart failure; (c) arrhythmia detection including early detection of atrial fibrillation and telemonitoring of devices such as pacemaker, internal cardioverter defibrillators and implantable rhythm monitoring devices; (d) telerehabilitation. Major obstacles to the integration of eHealth and telemedicine into daily clinical practice include limited large-scale evidence, in particular, for cost-effectiveness, as well as lack of interoperability, inadequate or fragmented legal frameworks and lack of reimbursement. An important challenge for those involved in these new technologies will be to keep the main focus on patient's individual needs and to carefully evaluate the evidence behind the practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: Technology-enhanced multi-domain at home continuum of care program with respect to usual care for people with cognitive impairment: the Ability-TelerehABILITation study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: According to the World Alzheimer Report (Prince, The Global Impact of Dementia: an Analysis of Prevalence, Incidence, Cost and Trends, 2015), 46.8 million people worldwide are nowadays living with dementia. And this number is estimated to approximate 131.5 million by 2050, with an increasing burden on society and families. The lack of medical treatments able to stop or slow down the course of the disease has moved the focus of interest toward the nonpharmacological approach and psychosocial therapies for people with/at risk of dementia, as in the Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) condition. The purpose of the present study is to test an individualized home-based multidimensional program aimed at enhancing the continuum of care for MCI and outpatients with dementia in early stage using technology.
METHODS: The proposed study is a single blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) involving 30 subjects with MCI and Alzheimer's disease (AD) randomly assigned to the intervention group (Ability group), who will receive the "Ability Program", or to the active control group (ACG), who will receive "Treatment As Usual" (TAU). The protocol provides for three steps of assessment: at the baseline (T_0), after treatment, (T_1) and at follow-up (T_2) with a multidimensional evaluation battery including cognitive functioning, behavioral, functional, and quality of life measures. The Ability Program lasts 6 weeks, comprises tablet-delivered cognitive (5 days/week) and physical activities (7 days/week) combined with a set of devices for the measurement and monitoring from remote of vital and physical health parameters. The TAU equally lasts 6 weeks and includes paper and pencil cognitive activities (5 days/week), with clinician's prescription to perform physical exercise every day and to monitor selected vital parameters.
DISCUSSION: Results of this study will inform on the efficacy of a technology-enhanced home care service to preserve cognitive and motor levels of functioning in MCI and AD, in order to slow down their loss of autonomy in daily life. The expected outcome is to ensure the continuity of care from clinical practice to the patient's home, enabling also cost effectiveness and the empowerment of patient and caregiver in the care process, positively impacting on their quality of life.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT02746484 (registration date: 12/apr/2016 - retrospectively registered).
Label Included: 0

Title: HIV patient and provider feedback on a telehealth collaborative care for depression intervention.
Abstract: In the HIV Translating Initiatives for Depression into Effective Solutions project, we conducted a randomized controlled effectiveness and implementation trial comparing depression collaborative care with enhanced usual care in Veterans Health Administration HIV clinics in the US. An offsite HIV depression care team including a psychiatrist, a depression care manager (DCM), and a clinical pharmacist provided collaborative care using a stepped-care model of treatment and made recommendations to providers through the electronic health record system. The DCM delivered care management to HIV patients through phone calls, performing routine assessments and providing counseling in self-management and problem-solving. The DCM documented all calls in each patient's electronic medical record. In this paper we present results from interviews conducted with patients and clinical staff in a multi-stage formative evaluation (FE). We conducted semi-structured FE interviews with 26 HIV patients and 30 clinical staff at the three participating sites during and after the trial period to gather their experiences and perspectives concerning the intervention components. Interviews were transcribed verbatim and analyzed using rapid content analysis techniques. Patients reported high satisfaction with the depression care manager (DCM) phone calls. Both HIV and mental health providers reported that the DCM's chart notes in the electronic health record were very helpful, and most felt that a dedicated DCM for HIV patients is ideal to meet patient needs. Sites encountered barriers to achieving and maintaining universal depression screening, but had greater success when such screening was incorporated into routine intake processes. FE results demonstrated that depression care management via telehealth from an offsite team is acceptable and helpful to both HIV patients and their providers. Given that a centralized offsite depression care team can deliver effective, cost-effective, cost-saving services for multiple HIV clinics in different locations with high patient and provider satisfaction, broad implementation should be considered.
Label Included: 0

Title: The acceptability to patients of video-consulting in general practice: semi-structured interviews in three diverse general practices.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: To improve patient access to healthcare, the UK government has encouraged technology-based approaches including internet video-consulting. However, little is known about patient acceptance of video-consulting as a consulting method. We aimed to explore primary care patients' views video-consulting.
METHOD: We used semi-structured interviews to survey 270 patients in NHS Lothian. Three diverse General Practices were chosen purposively and sequential patients attending the practice at a range of different times of day were invited to participate. Patients were asked to indicate their level of computer proficiency and provide their views on the use of video-call consulting and what specific applications it might have. We found that 135 of 270 respondents (50%, 95% CI 43.9%-56.1%) would use video-consulting. Patients under 60 years were over two times more likely to use it (OR 2.2, 95% CI 2.1-6.6, n = 248) and evidence of a positive trend between increasing computer proficiency and those who would video-consult was found, (χ2 = 43.97, p < 0.0005, n=270). Patients who had previously used video-calling services (such as Skype™)were approximately six times more likely to favour video-consulting than those who had not (OR 5.9, 95% CI 3.5-9.9, n = 270).
CONCLUSIONS: This suggests strong patient interest in video-consulting in primary care, however, it is possible that in the short to medium term there may be access inequality favouring younger and more technically able people. Further studies are needed to determine the content, safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of employing this medium.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telerheumatology: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To identify and summarize the published and gray literature on the use of telemedicine for the diagnosis and management of inflammatory and/or autoimmune rheumatic disease.
METHODS: We performed a registered systematic search (CRD42015025382) for studies using MEDLINE (1946 to July 2015), Embase (1974 to July 2015), Web of Science (1900 to July 2015), and Scopus (1946 to July 2015) databases. We included studies that demonstrated the use of telemedicine for diagnosis and/or management of inflammatory/autoimmune rheumatic disease. Following data extraction, we performed a descriptive analysis.
RESULTS: Our literature search identified 1,468 potentially eligible studies. Of these studies, 20 were ultimately included in this review. Studies varied significantly in publication type, quality of evidence, and the reporting of methods. Most demonstrated a high risk of bias. Rheumatoid arthritis was the most commonly studied rheumatic disease (42% of patients). Studies demonstrated conflicting results regarding the effectiveness of telemedicine (18 found it effective, 1 found it effective but possibly harmful, and 1 found it ineffective). A limited number of studies included some component of a cost analysis (n = 6; 16% of patients); all of these found telemedicine to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Studies identified by this systematic review generally found telemedicine to be effective for the diagnosis and management of autoimmune/inflammatory rheumatic disease; however, there is limited evidence to support this conclusion. Further studies are needed to determine the best uses of telemedicine for the diagnosis and management of these conditions.
Label Included: 0

Title: Bathing adaptations in the homes of older adults (BATH-OUT): protocol for a feasibility randomised controlled trial (RCT).
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The Care Act 2014 has placed a responsibility on local authorities in England to provide services that prevent deterioration and minimise the use of other health and social care services. Housing adaptations have been identified as 1 of the 10 most promising prevention services for older adults, with bathing adaptations being the most requested. However, many local authorities have lengthy waiting times which may increase costs, reduce effectiveness and reduce the preventive effect. There is no robust evidence of the effect of these adaptations on: health, well-being and functional ability.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a feasibility randomised controlled trial (RCT) with nested qualitative interview study. The RCT will recruit between 40 and 60 people who have been referred for an accessible showering facility, and their carers, from 1 local authority in England. They will be randomised to either usual adaptations (∼3-month wait) or immediate adaptations (no wait). The primary outcome is the feasibility of conducting a powered study. The outcomes assessed will be: health and social care-related quality of life, independence in activities of daily living and bathing, falls and use of health and social care services. Outcomes will be assessed at 3 and 6 months. Preliminary health economic feasibility will be established.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Favourable ethical opinion was provided by the Social Care Research Ethics Committee (reference number 16/IEC08/0017). The results of this study will lay the foundations for a further powered study. This would investigate the effect of bathing adaptations on quality of life and whether increased waiting times are associated with poorer outcomes and increased costs. The results have further potential to inform trials of other housing or social care interventions using the novel waiting list control method. Dissemination will include peer-reviewed publications and presentations at national and international conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN14876332; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mind the Gap. A systematic review to identify usability and safety challenges and practices during electronic health record implementation.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Decisions made during electronic health record (EHR) implementations profoundly affect usability and safety. This study aims to identify gaps between the current literature and key stakeholders' perceptions of usability and safety practices and the challenges encountered during the implementation of EHRs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two approaches were used: a literature review and interviews with key stakeholders. We performed a systematic review of the literature to identify usability and safety challenges and best practices during implementation. A total of 55 articles were reviewed through searches of PubMed, Web of Science and Scopus. We used a qualitative approach to identify key stakeholders' perceptions; semi-structured interviews were conducted with a diverse set of health IT stakeholders to understand their current practices and challenges related to usability during implementation. We used a grounded theory approach: data were coded, sorted, and emerging themes were identified. Conclusions from both sources of data were compared to identify areas of misalignment.
RESULTS: We identified six emerging themes from the literature and stakeholder interviews: cost and resources, risk assessment, governance and consensus building, customization, clinical workflow and usability testing, and training. Across these themes, there were misalignments between the literature and stakeholder perspectives, indicating major gaps.
DISCUSSION: Major gaps identified from each of six emerging themes are discussed as critical areas for future research, opportunities for new stakeholder initiatives, and opportunities to better disseminate resources to improve the implementation of EHRs.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis identified practices and challenges across six different emerging themes, illustrated important gaps, and results suggest critical areas for future research and dissemination to improve EHR implementation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Enhanced invitation methods and uptake of health checks in primary care: randomised controlled trial and cohort study using electronic health records.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A national programme of health checks to identify risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) is being rolled out but is encountering difficulties because of low uptake.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of an enhanced invitation method using the question-behaviour effect (QBE), with or without the offer of a financial incentive to return the QBE questionnaire, at increasing the uptake of health checks. The research went on to evaluate the reasons for the low uptake of invitations and compare the case mix for invited and opportunistic health checks.
DESIGN: Three-arm randomised trial and cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: All participants invited for a health check from 18 general practices. Individual participants were randomised.
INTERVENTIONS: (1) Standard health check invitation only; (2) QBE questionnaire followed by a standard invitation; and (3) QBE questionnaire with offer of a financial incentive to return the questionnaire, followed by a standard invitation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was completion of the health check within 6 months of invitation. A p-value of 0.0167 was used for significance. In the cohort study of all health checks completed during the study period, the case mix was compared for participants responding to invitations and those receiving 'opportunistic' health checks. Participants were not aware that several types of invitation were in use. The research team were blind to trial arm allocation at outcome data extraction.
RESULTS: In total, 12,459 participants were included in the trial and health check uptake was evaluated for 12,052 participants for whom outcome data were collected. Health check uptake was as follows: standard invitation, 590 out of 4095 (14.41%); QBE questionnaire, 630 out of 3988 (15.80%); QBE questionnaire and financial incentive, 629 out of 3969 (15.85%). The increase in uptake associated with the QBE questionnaire was 1.43% [95% confidence interval (CI) -0.12% to 2.97%; p = 0.070] and the increase in uptake associated with the QBE questionnaire and offer of financial incentive was 1.52% (95% CI -0.03% to 3.07%; p = 0.054). The difference in uptake associated with the offer of an incentive to return the QBE questionnaire was -0.01% (95% CI -1.59% to 1.58%; p = 0.995). During the study period, 58% of health check cardiovascular risk assessments did not follow a trial invitation. People who received an 'opportunistic' health check had greater odds of a ≥ 10% CVD risk than those who received an invited health check (adjusted odds ratio 1.70, 95% CI 1.45 to 1.99; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Uptake of a health check following an invitation letter is low and is not increased through an enhanced invitation method using the QBE. The offer of a £5 incentive did not increase the rate of return of the QBE questionnaire. A high proportion of all health checks are performed opportunistically and not in response to a standard invitation letter. Participants receiving opportunistic checks are at higher risk of CVD than those responding to standard invitations. Future research should aim to increase the accessibility of preventative medical interventions to increase uptake. Research should also explore the wider use of electronic health records in delivering efficient trials.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN42856343.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 20, No. 84. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: A randomized wait-list control trial to evaluate the impact of a mobile application to improve self-management of individuals with type 2 diabetes: a study protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Management of diabetes through improved glycemic control and risk factor modification can help prevent long-term complications. Much diabetes management is self-management, in which healthcare providers play a supporting role. Well-designed e-Health solutions targeting behavior change can improve a range of measures, including glycemic control, perceived health, and a reduction in hospitalizations.
METHODS: The primary objective of this study is to evaluate if a mobile application designed to improve self-management among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) improves glycemic control compared to usual care. The secondary objectives are to determine the effects on patient experience and health system costs; evaluate how and why the intervention worked as observed; and gain insight into considerations for system-wide scale-up. This pragmatic, randomized, wait-list-control trial will recruit adult participants from three Diabetes Education Programs in Ontario, Canada. The primary outcome is glycemic control (measured by HbA1c). Secondary outcomes include patient-reported outcomes and patient-reported experience measures, health system utilization, and intervention usability. The primary outcome will be analyzed using an ANCOVA, with continuous secondary outcomes analyzed using Poisson regression. Direct observations will be conducted of the implementation and application-specific training sessions provided to each site. Semi-structured interviews will be conducted with participants, healthcare providers, organizational leaders, and system stakeholders as part of the embedded process evaluation. Thematic analysis will be applied to the qualitative data in order to describe the relationships between (a) key contextual factors, (b) the mechanisms by which they effect the implementation of the intervention, and (c) the impact on the outcomes of the intervention, according to the principles of Realist Evaluation.
DISCUSSION: The use of mobile health and virtual tools is on the rise in health care, but the evidence of their effectiveness is mixed and their evaluation is often lacking key contextual data. Results from this study will provide much needed information about the clinical and cost-effectiveness of a mobile application to improve diabetes self-management. The process evaluation will provide valuable insight into the contextual factors that influence the application effectiveness, which will inform the potential for adoption and scale.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02813343 . Registered on 24 June 2016 (retrospectively registered). Trial Sponsor: Ontario Telemedicine Network.
Label Included: 0

Title: Long-term cost-effectiveness of home versus clinic-based management of chronic heart failure: the WHICH? study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of a heart failure management intervention can be further informed by incorporating the expected benefits and costs of future survival.
METHODS: This study compared the long-term costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained from home-based (HBI) vs specialist clinic-based intervention (CBI) among elderly patients (mean age = 71 years) with heart failure discharged home (mean intervention duration = 12 months). Cost-utility analysis was conducted from a government-funded health system perspective. A Markov cohort model was used to simulate disease progression over 15 years based on initial data from a randomized clinical trial (the WHICH? study). Time-dependent hazard functions were modeled using the Weibull function, and this was compared against an alternative model where the hazard was assumed to be constant over time. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted to identify the key drivers of cost-effectiveness and quantify uncertainty in the results.
RESULTS: During the trial, mortality was the highest within 30 days of discharge and decreased thereafter in both groups, although the declining rate of mortality was slower in CBI than HBI. At 15 years (extrapolated), HBI was associated with slightly better health outcomes (mean of 0.59 QALYs gained) and mean additional costs of AU$13,876 per patient. The incremental cost-utility ratio and the incremental net monetary benefit (vs CBI) were AU$23,352 per QALY gained and AU$15,835, respectively. The uncertainty was driven by variability in the costs and probabilities of readmissions. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed HBI had a 68% probability of being cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of AU$50,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Compared with CBI (outpatient specialized HF clinic-based intervention), HBI (home-based predominantly, but not exclusively) could potentially be cost-effective over the long-term in elderly patients with heart failure at a willingness-to-pay threshold of AU$50,000/QALY, albeit with large uncertainty.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Role of Retinal Imaging and Portable Screening Devices in Tele-ophthalmology Applications for Diabetic Retinopathy Management.
Abstract: In the years since its introduction, retinal imaging has transformed our capability to visualize the posterior pole of the eye. Increasing practical advances in mobile technology, regular monitoring, and population screening for diabetic retinopathy management offer the opportunity for further development of cost-effective applications through remote assessment of the diabetic eye using portable retinal cameras, smart-phone-based devices and telemedicine networks. Numerous retinal imaging methods and mobile technologies in tele-ophthalmology applications have been reported for diabetic retinopathy screening and management. They provide several advantages of automation, sensitivity, specificity, portability, and miniaturization for the development of point-of-care diagnostics for eye complications in diabetes. The aim of this paper is to review the role of retinal imaging and mobile technologies in tele-ophthalmology applications for diabetic retinopathy screening and management. At large, although improvements in current technology and telemedicine services are still needed, telemedicine has demonstrated to be a worthy tool to support health caregivers in the effective management and prevention of diabetes and its complications.
Label Included: 0

Title: Emergent Challenges in Determining Costs for Economic Evaluations.
Abstract: This paper describes methods of determining costs for economic evaluations of healthcare and considers how cost determination is being affected by recent developments in healthcare. The literature was reviewed to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the four principal methods of cost determination: micro-costing, activity-based costing, charge-based costing, and gross costing. A scoping review was conducted to identify key trends in healthcare delivery and to identify costing issues associated with these changes. Existing guidelines provide information on how to implement various costing methods. Bottom-up costing is needed when accuracy is paramount, but top-down approaches are often the only feasible approach. We describe six healthcare trends that have important implications for costing methodology: (1) reform in payment mechanisms; (2) care delivery in less restrictive settings; (3) the growth of telehealth interventions; (4) the proliferation of new technology; (5) patient privacy concerns; and (6) growing efforts to implement guidelines. Some costs are difficult to measure and have been overlooked. These include physician services for inpatients, facility costs for outpatient services, the cost of developing treatment innovations, patient and caregiver costs, and the indirect costs of organizational interventions. Standardized methods are needed to determine social welfare and productivity costs. In the future, cost determination will be facilitated by technological advances but hindered by the shift to capitated payment, to the provision of care in less restrictive settings, and by heightened concern for medical record privacy.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of home-based telebehavioural health care compared to in-person treatment delivery for depression.
Abstract: Introduction Home-based telebehavioural healthcare improves access to mental health care for patients restricted by travel burden. However, there is limited evidence assessing the economic value of home-based telebehavioural health care compared to in-person care. We sought to compare the economic impact of home-based telebehavioural health care and in-person care for depression among current and former US service members. Methods We performed trial-based cost-minimisation and cost-utility analyses to assess the economic impact of home-based telebehavioural health care versus in-person behavioural care for depression. Our analyses focused on the payer perspective (Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs) at three months. We also performed a scenario analysis where all patients possessed video-conferencing technology that was approved by these agencies. The cost-utility analysis evaluated the impact of different depression categories on the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to test the robustness of the model assumptions. Results In the base case analysis the total direct cost of home-based telebehavioural health care was higher than in-person care (US$71,974 versus US$20,322). Assuming that patients possessed government-approved video-conferencing technology, home-based telebehavioural health care was less costly compared to in-person care (US$19,177 versus US$20,322). In one-way sensitivity analyses, the proportion of patients possessing personal computers was a major driver of direct costs. In the cost-utility analysis, home-based telebehavioural health care was dominant when patients possessed video-conferencing technology. Results from probabilistic sensitivity analyses did not differ substantially from base case results. Discussion Home-based telebehavioural health care is dependent on the cost of supplying video-conferencing technology to patients but offers the opportunity to increase access to care. Health-care policies centred on implementation of home-based telebehavioural health care should ensure that these technologies are able to be successfully deployed on patients' existing technology.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of In-Home Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for low-income depressed mothers participating in early childhood prevention programs.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: To determine the cost-effectiveness of In-Home Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (IH-CBT) for low-income mothers enrolled in a home visiting program.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was conducted using results from a clinical trial of IH-CBT and standard of care for depression derived from the literature. A probabilistic, patient-level Markov model was developed to determine Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs). Costs were determined using the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey. A three-year time horizon and payer perspective were used. Sensitivity analyses were employed to determine robustness of the model.
RESULTS: IH-CBT was cost-effective relative to standard of care. IH-CBT was expected to be cost-effective at a three-year time horizon 99.5%, 99.7%, and 99.9% of the time for willingness-to-pay thresholds of US$25,000, US$50,000, and US$100,000, respectively. Patterns were upheld at one-year and five-year time horizons. Over the three-year time horizon, mothers receiving IH-CBT were expected to have 345.6 fewer days of depression relative to those receiving standard home visiting and treatment in the community.
CONCLUSIONS: IH-CBT is a more cost-effective treatment for low-income, depressed mothers than current standards of practice. These findings add to the growing literature demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of CBT for depression, and expand it to cover new mothers. From a payer perspective, IH-CBT is a sound option for treatment of depressed, low-income mothers. Limitations include a restricted time horizon and estimating of standard of care costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using nationwide ‘big data’ from linked electronic health records to help improve outcomes in cardiovascular diseases: 33 studies using methods from epidemiology, informatics, economics and social science in the ClinicAl disease research using LInked Bespoke studies and Electronic health Records (CALIBER) programme
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Electronic health records (EHRs), when linked across primary and secondary care and curated for research use, have the potential to improve our understanding of care quality and outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate new opportunities arising from linked EHRs for improving quality of care and outcomes for patients at risk of or with coronary disease across the patient journey.
DESIGN: Epidemiological cohort, health informatics, health economics and ethnographic approaches were used.
SETTING: 230 NHS hospitals and 226 general practices in England and Wales.
PARTICIPANTS: Up to 2 million initially healthy adults, 100,000 people with stable coronary artery disease (SCAD) and up to 300,000 patients with acute coronary syndrome.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality of care, fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease (CVD) events.
DATA PLATFORM AND METHODS: We created a novel research platform [ClinicAl disease research using LInked Bespoke studies and Electronic health Records (CALIBER)] based on linkage of four major sources of EHR data in primary care and national registries. We carried out 33 complementary studies within the CALIBER framework. We developed a web-based clinical decision support system (CDSS) in hospital chest pain clinics. We established a novel consented prognostic clinical cohort of SCAD patients.
RESULTS: CALIBER was successfully established as a valid research platform based on linked EHR data in nearly 2 million adults with > 600 EHR phenotypes implemented on the web portal (see https://caliberresearch.org/portal). Despite national guidance, key opportunities for investigation and treatment were missed across the patient journey, resulting in a worse prognosis for patients in the UK compared with patients in health systems in other countries. Our novel, contemporary, high-resolution studies showed heterogeneous associations for CVD risk factors across CVDs. The CDSS did not alter the decision-making behaviour of clinicians in chest pain clinics. Prognostic models using real-world data validly discriminated risk of death and events, and were used in cost-effectiveness decision models.
CONCLUSIONS: Emerging ‘big data’ opportunities arising from the linkage of records at different stages of a patient’s journey are vital to the generation of actionable insights into the diagnosis, risk stratification and cost-effective treatment of people at risk of, or with, CVD.
FUTURE WORK: The vast majority of NHS data remain inaccessible to research and this hampers efforts to improve efficiency and quality of care and to drive innovation. We propose three priority directions for further research. First, there is an urgent need to ‘unlock’ more detailed data within hospitals for the scale of the UK’s 65 million population. Second, there is a need for scaled approaches to using EHRs to design and carry out trials, and interpret the implementation of trial results. Third, large-scale, disease agnostic genetic and biological collections linked to such EHRs are required in order to deliver precision medicine and to innovate discovery.
STUDY REGISTRATION: CALIBER studies are registered as follows: study 2 – NCT01569139, study 4 – NCT02176174 and NCT01164371, study 5 – NCT01163513, studies 6 and 7 – NCT01804439, study 8 – NCT02285322, and studies 26–29 – NCT01162187. Optimising the Management of Angina is registered as Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN54381840.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Programme Grants for Applied Research programme (RP-PG-0407-10314) (all 33 studies) and additional funding from the Wellcome Trust (study 1), Medical Research Council Partnership grant (study 3), Servier (study 16), NIHR Research Methods Fellowship funding (study 19) and NIHR Research for Patient Benefit (study 33).
Label Included: 0

Title: Targeting the underlying causes of undernutrition. Cost-effectiveness of a multifactorial personalized intervention in community-dwelling older adults: A randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND & AIMS: Undernutrition in old age is associated with increased morbidity, mortality and health care costs. Treatment by caloric supplementation results in weight gain, but compliance is poor in the long run. Few studies targeted underlying causes of undernutrition in community-dwelling older adults. This study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a multifactorial personalized intervention focused on eliminating or managing the underlying causes of undernutrition to prevent and reduce undernutrition in comparison with usual care.
METHODS: A randomized controlled trial was performed among 155 community-dwelling older adults receiving home care with or at risk of undernutrition. The intervention included a personalized action plan and 6 months support. The control group received usual care. Body weight, and secondary outcomes were measured in both groups at baseline and 6 months follow-up. Multiple imputation, linear regression and generalized estimating equation analyses were used to analyze intervention effects. In the cost-effectiveness analyses regression models were bootstrapped to estimate statistical uncertainty.
RESULTS: This intervention showed no statistically significant effects on body weight, mid-upper arm circumference, grip strength, gait speed and 12-Item Short-Form Health Survey physical component scale as compared to usual care, but there was an effect on the 12-Item Short-Form Health Survey mental component scale (0-100) (β = 8.940, p=0.001). Borderline significant intervention effects were found for both objective and subjective physical function measures, Short Physical Performance Battery (0-12) (β = 0.56, p=0.08) and ADL-Barthel score (0-20) (β = 0.69, p=0.09). Societal costs in the intervention group were statistically non-significantly lower than in the control group (mean difference -274; 95% CI -1111; 782). Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves showed that the probability of cost-effectiveness was 0.72 at a willingness-to-pay of 1000 €/kg weight gain and 0.80 at a willingness-to-pay of 20,000 €/quality-adjusted life year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: This multifactorial personalized intervention showed a statistically non-significant effect and was not cost-effective on body-weight compared to usual care. We observed consistently beneficial treatment effects in the intervention group on all outcomes measures.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRY NUMBER AND WEBSITE: NTR5184 (www.trialregister.nl).
Label Included: 0

Title: Can delivery systems use cost-effectiveness analysis to reduce healthcare costs and improve value?
Abstract: Understanding costs and ensuring that we demonstrate value in healthcare is a foundational presumption as we transform the way we deliver and pay for healthcare in the U.S. With a focus on population health and payment reforms underway, there is increased pressure to examine cost-effectiveness in healthcare delivery. Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) is a type of economic analysis comparing the costs and effects (i.e. health outcomes) of two or more treatment options. The result is expressed as a ratio where the denominator is the gain in health from a measure (e.g. years of life or quality-adjusted years of life) and the numerator is the incremental cost associated with that health gain. For higher cost interventions, the lower the ratio of costs to effects, the higher the value. While CEA is not new, the approach continues to be refined with enhanced statistical techniques and standardized methods. This article describes the CEA approach and also contrasts it to optional approaches, in order for readers to fully appreciate caveats and concerns. CEA as an economic evaluation tool can be easily misused owing to inappropriate assumptions, over reliance, and misapplication. Twelve issues to be considered in using CEA results to drive healthcare delivery decision-making are summarized. Appropriately recognizing both the strengths and the limitations of CEA is necessary for informed resource allocation in achieving the maximum value for healthcare services provided.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating the Economic Impact of Smart Care Platforms: Qualitative and Quantitative Results of a Case Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In response to the increasing pressure of the societal challenge because of a graying society, a gulf of new Information and Communication Technology (ICT) supported care services (eCare) can now be noticed. Their common goal is to increase the quality of care while decreasing its costs. Smart Care Platforms (SCPs), installed in the homes of care-dependent people, foster the interoperability of these services and offer a set of eCare services that are complementary on one platform. These eCare services could not only result in more quality care for care receivers, but they also offer opportunities to care providers to optimize their processes.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to identify and describe the expected added values and impacts of integrating SCPs in current home care delivery processes for all actors. In addition, the potential economic impact of SCP deployment is quantified from the perspective of home care organizations.
METHODS: Semistructured and informal interviews and focus groups and cocreation workshops with service providers, managers of home care organizations, and formal and informal care providers led to the identification of added values of SCP integration. In a second step, process breakdown analyses of home care provisioning allowed defining the operational impact for home care organization. Impacts on 2 different process steps of providing home care were quantified. After modeling the investment, an economic evaluation compared the business as usual (BAU) scenario versus the integrated SCP scenario.
RESULTS: The added value of SCP integration for all actors involved in home care was identified. Most impacts were qualitative such as increase in peace of mind, better quality of care, strengthened involvement in care provisioning, and more transparent care communication. For home care organizations, integrating SCPs could lead to a decrease of 38% of the current annual expenses for two administrative process steps namely, care rescheduling and the billing for care provisioning.
CONCLUSIONS: Although integrating SCP in home care processes could affect both the quality of life of the care receiver and informal care giver, only scarce and weak evidence was found that supports this assumption. In contrast, there exists evidence that indicates the lack of the impact on quality of life of the care receiver while it increases the cost of care provisioning. However, our cost-benefit quantification model shows that integrating SCPs in home care provisioning could lead to a considerable decrease of costs for care administrative tasks. Because of this cost decreasing impact, we believe that the integration of SCPs will be driven by home care organizations instead of the care receivers themselves.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Community-Based Minigrants to Increase Physical Activity in Youth.
Abstract: CONTEXT: American youth are insufficiently active, and minigrant programs have been developed to facilitate implementation of evidence-based interventions in communities. However, little is known about the cost-effectiveness of targeted minigrant programs for the implementation of physical activity (PA) promoting strategies for youth.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of a minigrant program to increase PA among youth.
DESIGN: Twenty community grantees were pair-matched and randomized to receive funding at the beginning of year 1 (2010-2011) or year 2 (2011-2012) to implement interventions to increase PA in youth. Costs were calculated by examining financial reports provided by the granting organization and grantees.
SETTING: Twenty counties in North Carolina.
PARTICIPANTS: A random sample of approximately 800 fourth- to eighth-grade youth (per year) from the approximately 6100 youth served by the 20 community-based interventions.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost-effectiveness ratios (CERs) were calculated at the county and project levels to determine the cost per child-minute of moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA) increased by wave. Analyses were conducted utilizing cost data from 20 community grantees and accelerometer-derived PA from the participating youth.
RESULTS: Of the 20 participating counties, 18 counties displayed increased youth MVPA between at least 2 waves of observation. Of those 18 counties, the CER (US dollars/MVPA minutes per day) ranged from $0.02 to $1.86 (n = 13) in intervention year 1, $0.02 to $6.19 (n = 15) in intervention year 2, and $0.02 to $0.58 (n = 17) across both years.
CONCLUSION: If utilized to implement effectual behavior change strategies, minigrants can be a cost-effective means of increasing children's MVPA, with a low monetary cost per minute of MVPA.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Study of Asynchronous Mobile-Enabled SMS Text Psychotherapy.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many obstacles to obtaining psychotherapy continue to diminish its reach despite its documented positive effects. Using short message service (SMS) texting and Web platforms to enable licensed psychotherapists to deliver therapy directly to the lived context of the client is one possible solution.
INTRODUCTION: Employing a feasibility study design, this pilot trial further evaluated the external validity for treatment outcomes of text therapy and extended findings to include mobile-enabled text platforms.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adults seeking text therapy treatment for a variety of disorders were recruited from a text therapy service (N = 57). Clinical outcomes were measured using the General Health Questionnaire-12 (GHQ-12) through 15 weeks of treatment. A process variable, the therapeutic alliance, was measured with the Working Alliance Inventory. Treatment acceptability was assessed with ratings of satisfaction for several aspects of the treatment, including affordability, effectiveness, convenience, wait times to receiving treatment, and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Results indicate evidence for the effectiveness of the intervention (GHQ-12, Cohen's d = 1.3). Twenty-five (46%) participants experienced clinically significant symptom remission. Therapeutic alliance scores were lower than those found in traditional treatment settings, but still predicted symptom improvement (R2 = 0.299). High levels of satisfaction with text therapy were reported on dimensions of affordability, convenience, and effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness analyses suggest that text therapy is 42.2% the cost of traditional services and offers much reduced wait times.
CONCLUSION: Mobile-enabled asynchronous text therapy with a licensed therapist is an acceptable and clinically beneficial medium for individuals with various diagnoses and histories of psychological distress.
Label Included: 0

Title: Operational Components of Telemedicine Programs for Diabetic Retinopathy.
Abstract: Diabetic retinopathy is a leading cause of new-onset vision loss worldwide. Treatments supported by large clinical trials are effective in preserving vision, but many persons do not receive timely diagnosis and treatment of diabetic retinopathy, which is typically asymptomatic when most treatable. Telemedicine evaluation to identify diabetic retinopathy has the potential to improve access to care and improve outcomes, but incomplete implementation of published standards creates a risk to program utility and sustainability. In a prior article, we reviewed the literature regarding the impact of imaging device, number and size of retinal images, pupil dilation, type of image grader, and diagnostic accuracy on telemedicine assessment for diabetic retinopathy. This article reviews the literature regarding the impact of automated image grading, cost effectiveness, program standards, and quality assurance (QA) on telemedicine assessment of diabetic retinopathy. Telemedicine assessment of diabetic retinopathy has the potential to preserve vision, but greater attention to development and implementation of standards is needed to better realize its potential.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of a Health System-Based Smoking Cessation Program.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Project CLIQ (Community Link to Quit) was a proactive population-outreach strategy using an electronic health records-based smoker registry and interactive voice recognition technology to connect low- to moderate-income smokers with cessation counseling, medications, and social services. A randomized trial demonstrated that the program increased cessation. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of CLIQ from a provider organization's perspective if implemented outside the trial framework.
METHODS: We calculated the cost, cost per smoker, incremental cost per additional quit, and, secondarily, incremental cost per additional life year saved of the CLIQ system compared to usual care using data from a 2011-2013 randomized trial assessing the effectiveness of the CLIQ system. Sensitivity analyses considered economies of scale and initial versus ongoing costs.
RESULTS: Over a 20-month period (the duration of the trial) the program cost US $283 027 (95% confidence interval [CI] $209 824-$389 072) more than usual care in a population of 8544 registry-identified smokers, 707 of whom participated in the program. The cost per smoker was $33 (95% CI 28-40), incremental cost per additional quit was $4137 (95% CI $2671-$8460), and incremental cost per additional life year saved was $7301 (95% CI $4545-$15 400). One-time costs constituted 28% of costs over 20 months. Ongoing costs were dominated by personnel costs (71% of ongoing costs). Sensitivity analyses showed sharp gains in cost-effectiveness as the number of identified smokers increased because of the large initial costs.
CONCLUSIONS: The CLIQ system has favorable cost-effectiveness compared to other smoking cessation interventions. Cost-effectiveness will be greatest for health systems with high numbers of smokers and with the high smoker participation rates.
IMPLICATIONS: Health information systems capable of establishing registries of patients who are smokers are becoming more prevalent. This economic analysis illustrates the cost implications for health care systems adopting a proactive tobacco treatment outreach strategy for low- and middle-income smokers. We find that under many circumstances, the CLIQ system has a favorable cost-per-quit compared to other population-based tobacco treatment strategies. The strategy could be widely disseminable if health systems leverage economies of scale.
Label Included: 1

Title: Treating Dehydration at Home Avoids Healthcare Costs Associated With Emergency Department Visits and Hospital Readmissions for Adult Patients Receiving Home Parenteral Support.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Administration of home parenteral support (HPS) has proven to be cost-effective over hospital care. Avoiding hospital readmissions became more of a focus for healthcare institutions in 2012 with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. In 2010, our service developed a protocol to treat dehydration at home for HPS patients by ordering additional intravenous fluids to be kept on hand and to focus patient education on the symptoms of dehydration.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was completed through a clinical management database to identify HPS patients with dehydration. The hospital finance department and homecare pharmacy were utilized to determine potential cost avoidance.
RESULTS: In 2009, 64 episodes (77%) of dehydration were successfully treated at home versus 6 emergency department (ED) visits (7.5%) and 13 readmissions (15.5%). In 2010, we successfully treated 170 episodes (84.5%) at home, with 9 episodes (4.5%) requiring ED visits and 22 hospital readmissions (11%). The number of dehydration episodes per patient was significantly higher in 2010 ( P < .001) and may be attributed to a shift in the patient population, with more patients having malabsorption as the indication for therapy in 2010 ( P = .003).
CONCLUSION: There were more than twice as many episodes of dehydration identified and treated at home in 2010 versus 2009. Our protocol helped educate and provide the resources required to resolve dehydration at home when early signs were recognized. By reducing ED visits and hospital readmissions, healthcare costs were avoided by a factor of 29 when home treatment was successful.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation strategies in telehealth: Obtaining a more holistic valuation of telehealth interventions.
Abstract: Telehealth is an emerging area of medical research. Its translation from conception, to research and into practice requires tailored research and economic evaluation methods. Due to their nature telehealth interventions exhibit a number of extra-clinical benefits that are relevant when valuing their costs and outcomes. By incorporating methods to measure societal values such as patient preference and willingness-to-pay, a more holistic value can be placed on the extra-clinical outcomes associated with telehealth and evaluations can represent new interventions more effectively. Cost-benefit analysis is a method by which relevant costs and outcomes in telehealth can be succinctly valued and compared. When health economic methods are conducted using holistic approaches such as cost-benefit analysis they can facilitate the translation of telehealth research into policy and practice.
Label Included: 0

Title: The financial burden and health care utilization patterns associated with amnestic mild cognitive impairment.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Individuals with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) are at elevated risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia.
METHODS: With data from the Aging, Demographics, and Memory Study, we used the Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes classifications to conduct a cross-sectional analysis assessing the relationship between cognitive state and various direct and indirect costs and health care utilization patterns.
RESULTS: Patients with aMCI had less medical expenditures than patients with moderate and severe AD dementia (P < .001) and were also significantly less likely to have been hospitalized (P = .04) and admitted to nursing home (P < .001). Compared to individuals with normal cognition, patients with aMCI had significantly less household income (P = .018).
DISCUSSION: Patients with aMCI had lower medical expenditures than patients with AD dementia. Poor cognitive status was linearly associated with lower household income, higher medical expenditures, higher likelihood of nursing and home care services, and lower likelihood of outpatient visits.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost savings of home bortezomib injection in patients with multiple myeloma treated by a combination care in Outpatient Hospital and Hospital care at Home.
Abstract: At home injectable chemotherapy for patients receiving treatment for hematological diseases is still in debate. Given the expense of new innovative medicines, at home treatment has been proposed as a suitable option for improving patient quality of life and decreasing treatment costs. We decided to assess the cost of bortezomib administration in France among multiple myeloma patients from an economic standpoint. Patients in this study were treated within a regional hematological network combining outpatient hospital care and Hospital care at Home administration. To make the cost comparison, our team simulated outpatient hospital care expenses. Fifty-four consecutive multiple myeloma patients who received at least one injection of bortezomib in Hospital care at Home from January 2009 to December 2011 were included in the study. The median number of injections was 12 (range 1-44) at home and 6 (range 0-30) in the outpatient care unit. When compared with the cost simulation of outpatient hospital care alone, bortezomib administration with combined care was significantly less expensive for the National Health Insurance (NHI) budget. The mean total cost per patient and per injection was 954.20 € for combined outpatient and Hospital care at Home vs 1143.42 € for outpatient hospital care alone. This resulted in an estimated 16.5 % cost saving (Wilcoxon signed-rank test, p < 0.0001). The greatest savings were observed in administration costs (37.5 % less) and transportation costs (68.1 % less). This study reflects results for a regionally implemented program for multiple myeloma patients treated with bortezomib in routine practice in a large rural area.
Label Included: 0

Title: Factors that influence the implementation of e-health: a systematic review of systematic reviews (an update).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is a significant potential for e-health to deliver cost-effective, quality health care, and spending on e-health systems by governments and healthcare systems is increasing worldwide. However, there remains a tension between the use of e-health in this way and implementation. Furthermore, the large body of reviews in the e-health implementation field, often based on one particular technology, setting or health condition make it difficult to access a comprehensive and comprehensible summary of available evidence to help plan and undertake implementation. This review provides an update and re-analysis of a systematic review of the e-health implementation literature culminating in a set of accessible and usable recommendations for anyone involved or interested in the implementation of e-health.
METHODS: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO and The Cochrane Library were searched for studies published between 2009 and 2014. Studies were included if they were systematic reviews of the implementation of e-health. Data from included studies were synthesised using the principles of meta-ethnography, and categorisation of the data was informed by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR).
RESULTS: Forty-four reviews mainly from North America and Europe were included. A range of e-health technologies including electronic medical records and clinical decision support systems were represented. Healthcare settings included primary care, secondary care and home care. Factors important for implementation were identified at the levels of the following: the individual e-health technology, the outer setting, the inner setting and the individual health professionals as well as the process of implementation.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review of reviews provides a synthesis of the literature that both acknowledges the multi-level complexity of e-health implementation and provides an accessible and useful guide for those planning implementation. New interpretations of a large amount of data across e-health systems and healthcare settings have been generated and synthesised into a set of useable recommendations for practice. This review provides a further empirical test of the CFIR and identifies areas where additional research is necessary.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO, CRD42015017661.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost and Time Effectiveness Analysis of a Telemedicine Service in Bangladesh.
Abstract: Telemedicine has great potential to overcome geographical barriers to providing access to equal health care services, particularly for people living in remote and rural areas in developing countries like Bangladesh. A number of telemedicine systems have been implemented in Bangladesh. However, no significant studies have been conducted to determine either their cost effectiveness or efficiency in reducing travel time required by patients. In addition, very few studies have analyzed the attitude and level of satisfaction of telemedicine service recipients in Bangladesh. The aim of this study was to analyze the cost and time effectiveness of a telemedicine service, implemented through locally developed PC based diagnostic equipment and software in Bangladesh, compared to conventional means of providing those services. The study revealed that the introduced telemedicine service reduced cost and travel time on average by 56% and 94% respectively compared to its counterpart conventional approach. The study also revealed that majority of users were highly satisfied with the newly introduced telemedicine service. Therefore, the introduced telemedicine service can be considered as a low cost and time efficient health service solution to improve health care facilities in the remote rural areas in Bangladesh.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Towards a sustainable, cost-effective mental health care; a policy perspective].
Abstract: After a decade of robust growth in spending, Dutch mental healthcare is on a more stricter budgetary path since 2012. High prevalence of illness and limited spending, imply the need for efficient mental healthcare delivery.<br/> AIM: To advise how mental health care can be managed more efficiently. There will also have to be more differentiation between mild and serious psychiatric illnesses.<br/> METHOD: Review of academic articles and policy studies.<br/> RESULTS: With regard to the treatment of fairly common disorders, more attention needs to be given to integrated basic care and e-health. Employers and stakeholders can perhaps play a role in financing some of these services. Severe mental disorders can be handled more often on an integrated ambulatory basis setting than only in a hospital setting, while scaling down inpatient capacity. These steps would represent a major transition and would require spending cuts and a change in the provider 'landscape'.<br/> CONCLUSION: Sustainable mental healthcare is inseparably linked to an agenda that provides value for money and it implies a major transition. However, in principle, it should be possible to fit these changes into the current system of governance. More attention needs to be given to coordination between the various domains, and to a reduction in administrative costs. Reimbursement methods should align e-health, collaborative care, case-management and best-practice pathways.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of chronic disease self-management for people with diabetes: a systematic review.
Abstract: AIMS: To systematically review the evidence on the costs and cost-effectiveness of self-management support interventions for people with diabetes.
BACKGROUND: Self-management support is the provision of education and supportive interventions to increase patients' skills and confidence in managing their health problems, potentially leading to improvements in HbA1c levels in people with diabetes.
METHODS: Randomized controlled trials, observational studies or economic modelling studies were eligible for inclusion in the review. The target population was adults with diabetes. Interventions had to have a substantial component of self-management support and be compared with routine care. Study quality was evaluated using the Consensus on Health Economic Criteria and International Society of Pharmacoeconomic Outcomes Research questionnaires. A narrative review approach was used.
RESULTS: A total of 16 costing and 21 cost-effectiveness studies of a range of self-management support interventions were identified. There was reasonably consistent evidence across 22 studies evaluating education self-management support programmes suggesting these interventions are cost-effective or superior to usual care. Telemedicine-type interventions were more expensive than usual care and potentially not cost-effective. There was insufficient evidence regarding the other types of self-management interventions, including pharmacist-led and behavioural interventions. The identified studies were predominantly of poor quality, with outcomes based on short-term follow-up data and study designs at high risk of bias.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-management support education programmes may be cost-effective. There was limited evidence regarding other formats of self-management support interventions. The poor quality of many of the studies undermines the evidence base regarding the economic efficiency of self-management support interventions for people with diabetes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Increasing Cardiomyopathy Screening in Childhood Cancer Survivors: A Cost Analysis of Advanced Practice Nurse Phone Counseling.
Abstract: PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To document the per survivor and per additional survivor screening costs of a mailed survivorship care plan (SCP) with advanced practice nurse (APN) telephone counseling (SCP+C) or without APN telephone counseling (SCP). .
DESIGN: Randomized, longitudinal clinical trial. .
SETTING: St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee. .
SAMPLE: 411 at-risk pediatric cancer survivors (aged 26-59 years), stratified by age (younger than 30 years versus 30 years or older), recommended screening frequency (every one, two, or five years), gender, and cancer diagnosis (hematologic versus solid tumor). .
METHODS: Clinical and resource data costs were derived from trial data and external estimates. .
MAIN RESEARCH VARIABLES: The cost-effectiveness of left ventricular systolic function screening per survivor and per each additional survivor screened. .
FINDINGS: The per-survivor costs of SCP (n = 206) and SCP+C (n = 205) were $74.91 and $224.69, respectively. The estimated costs of SCP and SCP+C per additional survivor screened for two years disseminated in a medium-sized clinic (n = 101 survivors annually) were $345.41 and $293.85, respectively. .
CONCLUSIONS: Adding APN counseling to a printed SCP may help preserve cardiac health at little or no cost per additional survivor screened. .
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: APN counseling is cost-effective and superior to the standard of care in supporting at-risk survivors' cardiac screening participation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Acceptance by laypersons and medical professionals of the personalized eHealth platform, eHealthMonitor.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND: Often, eHealth services are not accepted because of factors such as eHealth literacy or trust. Within this study, eHealthMonitor was evaluated in three European countries (Germany, Greece, and Poland) by medical professionals and laypersons with respect to numerous acceptance factors.
METHODS: Questionnaires were created on the basis of factors from literature and with the help of scales which have already been validated. A qualitative survey was conducted in Germany, Poland, and Greece.
RESULTS: The eHealth literacy of all participants was medium/high. Laypersons mostly agreed that they could easily become skillful with eHealthMonitor and that other people thought that they should use eHealthMonitor. Amongst medical professionals, a large number were afraid that eHealthMonitor could violate their privacy or the privacy of their patients. Overall, the participants thought that eHealthMonitor was a good concept and that they would use it.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The main hindrances to the use of eHealthMonitor were found in trust issues including data privacy. In the future, more research on the linkage of all measured factors is needed, for example, to address the question of whether highly educated people tend to mistrust eHealth information more than people with lower levels of education.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine with clinical decision support for critical care: a systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telemedicine applications aim to address variance in clinical outcomes and increase access to specialist expertise. Despite widespread implementation, there is little robust evidence about cost-effectiveness, clinical benefits, and impact on quality and safety of critical care telemedicine. The primary objective was to determine the impact of critical care telemedicine (with clinical decision support available 24/7) on intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital mortality and length of stay in adults and children. The secondary objectives included staff and patient experience, costs, protocol adherence, and adverse events.
METHODS: Data sources included MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Cochrane Library databases, Health Technology Assessment Database, Web of Science, OpenGrey, OpenDOAR, and the HMIC through to December 2015. Randomised controlled trials and quasi-experimental studies were eligible for inclusion. Eligible studies reported on differences between groups using the telemedicine intervention and standard care. Two review authors screened abstracts and assessed potentially eligible studies using Cochrane guidance.
RESULTS: Two controlled before-after studies met the inclusion criteria. Both were assessed as high risk of bias. Meta-analysis was not possible as we were unable to disaggregate data between the two studies. One study used a non-randomised stepped-wedge design in seven ICUs. Hospital mortality was the primary outcome which showed a reduction from 13.6 % (CI, 11.9-15.4 %) to 11.8 % (CI, 10.9-12.8 %) during the intervention period with an adjusted odds ratio (OR) of 0.40 (95 % CI, 0.31-0.52; p = .005). The second study used a non-randomised, unblinded, pre-/post-assessment of telemedicine interventions in 56 adult ICUs. Hospital mortality (primary outcome) reduced from 11 to 10 % (adjusted hazard ratio (HR) = 0.84; CI, 0.78-0.89; p = <.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This review highlights the poor methodological quality of most studies investigating critical care telemedicine. The results of the two included studies showed a reduction in hospital mortality in patients receiving the intervention. Further multi-site randomised controlled trials or quasi-experimental studies with accompanying process evaluations are urgently needed to determine effectiveness, implementation, and associated costs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42014007406.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs of a school-based dental mobile service in South Africa.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The burden of untreated tooth decay remains high and oral healthcare utilisation is low for the majority of children in South Africa. There is need for alternative methods of improving access to low cost oral healthcare. The mobile dental unit of the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) has been operational for over 25 years, providing alternative oral healthcare to children and adults who otherwise would not have access. The aim of this study was to conduct a cost-analysis of a school based oral healthcare program in the Wits mobile dental unit. The objectives were to estimate the general costs of the school based program, costs of oral healthcare per patient and the economic implications of providing services at scale.
METHODS: In 2012, the Wits mobile dental unit embarked on a 5 month project to provide oral healthcare in four schools located around Johannesburg. Cost and service use data were retrospectively collected from the program records for the cost analysis, which was undertaken from a provider perspective. The costs considered included both financial and economic costs. Capital costs were annualised and discounted at 6 %. One way sensitivity tests were conducted for uncertain parameters.
RESULTS: The total economic costs were R813.701 (US$76,048). The cost of screening and treatment per patient were R331 (US$31) and R743 (US$69) respectively. Furthermore, fissure sealants cost the least out of the treatments provided. The sensitivity analysis indicated that the Wits mobile dental unit was cost efficient at 25 % allocation of staff time and that a Dental Therapy led service could save costs by 9.1 %.
CONCLUSIONS: Expanding the services to a wider population of children and utilising Dental Therapists as key personnel could improve the efficiency of mobile dental healthcare provision.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Primary HPV Testing, Cytology and Co-testing as Cervical Cancer Screening for Women Above Age 30 Years.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer screening guidelines for women aged ≥30 years allow for co-testing or primary cytology testing. Our objective was to determine the test characteristics and costs associated with Cytology, HPV and Co-testing screening strategies.
MAIN METHODS: Retrospective cohort study of women undergoing cervical cancer screening with both cytology and HPV (Hybrid Capture 2) testing from 2004 to 2010 in an integrated health system. The electronic health record was used to identify women aged ≥30 years who had co-testing. Unsatisfactory or unavailable test results and incorrectly ordered tests were excluded. The main outcome was biopsy-proven cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or higher (CIN3+).
KEY RESULTS: The final cohort consisted of 99,549 women. Subjects were mostly white (78.4 %), married (70.7 %), never smokers (61.3 %) and with private insurance (86.1 %). Overall, 5121 (5.1 %) tested positive for HPV and 6115 (6.1 %) had cytology ≥ ASCUS; 1681 had both and underwent colposcopy and 310 (0.3 %) had CIN3+. Sensitivity for CIN3+ was 91.9 % for Primary Cytology, 99.4 % for Co-testing, and 94.8 % for Primary HPV; specificity was 97.3 % for Co-testing and Primary Cytology and 97.9 % for Primary HPV. Over a 3-year screening interval, Primary HPV detected more cases of CIN3+ and was less expensive than Primary Cytology. Co-testing detected 14 more cases of CIN3+ than Primary HPV, but required an additional 100,277 cytology tests and 566 colposcopies at an added cost of $2.38 million, or $170,096 per additional case detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary HPV was more effective and less expensive than Primary Cytology. Primary HPV screening appears to represent a cost-effective alternative to Co-testing.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Role of Telemedicine in Auditory Rehabilitation: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of live telemedicine applications in hearing amplification and cochlear implantation.
DATA SOURCES AND STUDY SELECTION: A systematic search was performed in PubMed, MEDLINE, PsychINFO, CINALH, and Web of Science to identify peer-reviewed research. Inclusion criteria were titles containing words from the search terms 1) audiology, otolaryngology, and hearing impairment, 2) rehabilitative methods, and 3) telemedicine. Exclusion criteria were: 1) non-English articles, and 2) non-original research.
DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Twelve eligible studies were identified. The studies employed a prospective design in nine of the articles and retrospective case series in three. The use of telemedicine for the provision of cochlear implant services was examined in eight of the articles and with hearing aids in four of the articles. The types of services include intraoperative cochlear implant telemetry; implant programming and assessment of electrode-specific measures and speech recognition after implantation. Hearing aid programming and remote gain assessments were also reported. Many studies assess patient and provider satisfaction along with encounter time comparison. The studies occurred from 2009 to 2014 and took place in seven countries.
CONCLUSIONS: This review examined the feasibility of remote telemedicine connection to provide in auditory rehabilitation services through hearing aids and cochlear implants. There are significant concerns regarding Internet bandwidth limitations for remote clinics. There is a paucity of research examining reimbursement and cost-effectiveness for services. Further prospective research investigating cost-effectiveness and bandwidth limitations is warranted to assess long-term sustainability of remote audiological rehabilitative service delivery.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improved Clinical Efficacy with Wound Support Network Between Hospital and Home Care Service.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of a wound support network model between the primary home care service and the hospital. The impact on wound healing rate, cost benefit, and transfer of knowledge was investigated.
INTERVENTION: The intervention group was exposed to a wound support network (n = 32), and the control group continued standard organization of treatment (n = 21).
DESIGN: Nonrandomized controlled study; observations were made before (baseline) and after the implementation of the intervention (12 weeks).
PATIENTS: Patients with chronic wounds (lasting >6 weeks and with wound area >1 cm) in Oslo, Norway.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Closure of the observation wound; wound size; total number of wounds; presence of eczema, edema, and pain; number of dressings per week; time spent per dressing; and number of control appointments at the hospital. The economic impact is calculated for the hospital and for the community of Oslo, Norway.
MAIN RESULTS: The number of control appointments (t = 3.80, P < .001) was significantly decreased, and the number of completed treatments (P = .02) was significantly increased after 12 weeks in the intervention group compared with the control group. A significant improvement was evident in the intervention group in terms of eczema (P = .02), edema (P = .03), and closing of the observational wound (46.7% cases in the intervention group versus 25.0% in the control group).
CONCLUSIONS: A wound support network between the primary home care service and the hospital is cost-effective, improves clinical efficacy of the home care services' work, and reduces the need for consultations at the hospital.
Label Included: 0

Title: Point-of-care testing INR: an overview.
Abstract: Oral anticoagulant therapies with the anti-vitamin K drugs (AVK), warfarin, acenocoumarol and phenprocoumon, are employed in primary and secondary anti-thrombotic prophylaxis in patients with venous thromboembolism, atrial fibrillation and cardiac mechanical valves. However, a monitoring test such as the International Normalized Ratio (INR) is required. The periodic monitoring of this therapy entails discomfort for the patients. Telemedicine and telecare can provide significant aid in the management of this therapy allowing patients to perform the test at home or anywhere else with a portable device, i.e. point-of-care testing (POCT), and to send the result to a thrombosis (TC) via web. Patients can receive dose adjustment sent back by the TC. The effectiveness of this type of management is equal or superior to the traditional AVK monitoring in terms of hemorrhagic and thrombotic events. Analysis of the costs with a horizon of 10 years reveals that both self-testing and self-management are cost-effective. The aim of this overview is to describe the pros and cons of the use of POCT as an alternative in the monitoring of AVK. In particular, description of the POCT, decentralization, quality of the therapy, safety and costs will be examined.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Application of the Balance of Care model in decision-making regarding the best care for patients with dementia].
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To describe the implementation of the Balance of Care model in decision-making regarding the best care for patients with dementia in Spain.
METHODS: The Balance of Care model was used, which consists of (1) describing the profile of the typical cases of people with dementia and their caregivers, (2) identifying the most suitable care setting for each of the cases (home-care or long-term care institution), (3) designing specific care plans for each case, and (4) evaluating the cost of the proposed care plans.
RESULTS: A total of 1,641 people with dementia and their caregivers from eight European countries were used in the case design. The evaluation of cases was conducted by 20 experts in different medical fields of dementia. In Spain, the results indicated that initially the most suitable placement to take care of people with dementia was the home, however in cases with higher dependency in activities of daily living, the long-term care setting was the best option. For the best care plan, the following resources were chosen: professional help to perform basic activities; day center; multidisciplinary home care team; financial support; community nurse; and social worker.
DISCUSSION: The Balance of Care method allows us to assess the most appropriate place of care for people with dementia systematically, objectively and with a multidisciplinary team. Other cost-effective interventions should be integrated in patients with dementia care in order to improve home care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evidence for Telemedicine for Diabetic Retinal Disease.
Abstract: According to current projections, the number of Americans with diabetes mellitus will increase from 27.8 million in 2007 to 60.7 million in 2030. With the increasing gap between demand for eye care and supply of ophthalmologists and optometrists, and the non-uniform distribution of eye care providers in US counties, barriers to eye examinations will likely increase. Telemedicine assessment of diabetic retinal disease through remote retinal imaging and diagnosis has the potential to meet these growing demands. To establish evidence for a telemedicine program as an effective modality for diabetic retinopathy (DR) assessment, the interpretation of teleretinal images should compare favorably with Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study film or digital photographs. We review the current evidence on the critical features and characteristics of ocular telehealth programs for DR in the following categories: image gradability, mydriasis, sensitivity and specificity, cost-effectiveness, long-term effectiveness, patient comfort and satisfaction, and improvement of patient related outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Designing and Undertaking a Health Economics Study of Digital Health Interventions.
Abstract: This paper introduces and discusses key issues in the economic evaluation of digital health interventions. The purpose is to stimulate debate so that existing economic techniques may be refined or new methods developed. The paper does not seek to provide definitive guidance on appropriate methods of economic analysis for digital health interventions. This paper describes existing guides and analytic frameworks that have been suggested for the economic evaluation of healthcare interventions. Using selected examples of digital health interventions, it assesses how well existing guides and frameworks align to digital health interventions. It shows that digital health interventions may be best characterized as complex interventions in complex systems. Key features of complexity relate to intervention complexity, outcome complexity, and causal pathway complexity, with much of this driven by iterative intervention development over time and uncertainty regarding likely reach of the interventions among the relevant population. These characteristics imply that more-complex methods of economic evaluation are likely to be better able to capture fully the impact of the intervention on costs and benefits over the appropriate time horizon. This complexity includes wider measurement of costs and benefits, and a modeling framework that is able to capture dynamic interactions among the intervention, the population of interest, and the environment. The authors recommend that future research should develop and apply more-flexible modeling techniques to allow better prediction of the interdependency between interventions and important environmental influences.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluating Digital Health Interventions: Key Questions and Approaches.
Abstract: Digital health interventions have enormous potential as scalable tools to improve health and healthcare delivery by improving effectiveness, efficiency, accessibility, safety, and personalization. Achieving these improvements requires a cumulative knowledge base to inform development and deployment of digital health interventions. However, evaluations of digital health interventions present special challenges. This paper aims to examine these challenges and outline an evaluation strategy in terms of the research questions needed to appraise such interventions. As they are at the intersection of biomedical, behavioral, computing, and engineering research, methods drawn from all of these disciplines are required. Relevant research questions include defining the problem and the likely benefit of the digital health intervention, which in turn requires establishing the likely reach and uptake of the intervention, the causal model describing how the intervention will achieve its intended benefit, key components, and how they interact with one another, and estimating overall benefit in terms of effectiveness, cost effectiveness, and harms. Although RCTs are important for evaluation of effectiveness and cost effectiveness, they are best undertaken only when: (1) the intervention and its delivery package are stable; (2) these can be implemented with high fidelity; and (3) there is a reasonable likelihood that the overall benefits will be clinically meaningful (improved outcomes or equivalent outcomes at lower cost). Broadening the portfolio of research questions and evaluation methods will help with developing the necessary knowledge base to inform decisions on policy, practice, and research.
Label Included: 0

Title: Why burn patients are referred?
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many burn patients are needed to be referred to a tertiary burn hospital according to the American Burn Association (ABA) criteria. The purpose of this study was to verify the reasons for referring of the burn patients to the hospital.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: For 2 years, we prospectively surveyed the burn patients referred to a tertiary teaching burn hospital. Data for the following variables were collected and analyzed with SPSS software V21.0: causes of burn; age; gender; total body surface area (TBSA) measured at the referring center; TBSA measured at the receiving center; concomitant diseases and traumas; the reason for referral; condition of patients before and during the transportation; transportation time; presence of infection; presence of inhalation injury, electrical injury, and chemical injury; child abuse; insurance coverage; and results and outcomes of patients.
RESULTS: A total of 578 burn patients (33.6% of the total admissions) were referred in the study period. Among these patients, 70.9% were females. The mean (SD) age of the patients was 35.3 (19.69) years. The mean (SD) of TBSA was 45.2 (26.3). Of the 578 patients, 45% were referred by request of the family or patients; 9% were referred because lack of diagnostic facility, approximately 43% were referred because of the need to be admitted in a tertiary burn center, 0.7% were referred because of a lack of capacity at other hospitals, and 0.5% were referred because of an error in the estimation of TBSA.
CONCLUSIONS: A total of 45% of the referrals were by request of the family and patients. Tele-medicine may help to establish a direct contact between expert burn physicians and the patients and thus reduce unnecessary transfers. Approximately 9% of the referrals were because of lack of some diagnostic facilities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Implementation and Operational Research: Cost and Efficiency of a Hybrid Mobile Multidisease Testing Approach With High HIV Testing Coverage in East Africa.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In 2013-2014, we achieved 89% adult HIV testing coverage using a hybrid testing approach in 32 communities in Uganda and Kenya (SEARCH: NCT01864603). To inform scalability, we sought to determine: (1) overall cost and efficiency of this approach; and (2) costs associated with point-of-care (POC) CD4 testing, multidisease services, and community mobilization.
METHODS: We applied microcosting methods to estimate costs of population-wide HIV testing in 12 SEARCH trial communities. Main intervention components of the hybrid approach are census, multidisease community health campaigns (CHC), and home-based testing for CHC nonattendees. POC CD4 tests were provided for all HIV-infected participants. Data were extracted from expenditure records, activity registers, staff interviews, and time and motion logs.
RESULTS: The mean cost per adult tested for HIV was $20.5 (range: $17.1-$32.1) (2014 US$), including a POC CD4 test at $16 per HIV+ person identified. Cost per adult tested for HIV was $13.8 at CHC vs. $31.7 by home-based testing. The cost per HIV+ adult identified was $231 ($87-$1245), with variability due mainly to HIV prevalence among persons tested (ie, HIV positivity rate). The marginal costs of multidisease testing at CHCs were $1.16/person for hypertension and diabetes, and $0.90 for malaria. Community mobilization constituted 15.3% of total costs.
CONCLUSIONS: The hybrid testing approach achieved very high HIV testing coverage, with POC CD4, at costs similar to previously reported mobile, home-based, or venue-based HIV testing approaches in sub-Saharan Africa. By leveraging HIV infrastructure, multidisease services were offered at low marginal costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Is telemonitoring useful for supporting persons with consciousness disorders and caregivers? A preliminary observational study in a real-life population.
Abstract: Introduction Preliminary evidences showed that telemedicine may allow a reduction of costs and an enhancement of patients' satisfaction and quality of life (QoL), with the same effectiveness of conventional methods of healthcare delivery. Literature is quite absent in relation to the use of telemedicine for patients with disorders of consciousness (DoC) whose management is delegated almost entirely to the family. In order to promote an alternative setting to manage persons affected by DoC, also supporting their families, a pilot project was designed to test the feasibility of home-care assistance based on a system of telemonitoring. Methods In total, 11 patients were supported by a telemonitoring system via a workstation installed at the patients' homes. All patients underwent a clinical and functional evaluation at enrolment, after two months, after six months and at the end of the project, after 12 months by means of clinical scales (Glasgow Coma Scale, Rancho Los Amigos Levels of Cognitive Functioning Scale, Glasgow Outcome Scale, Disability Rating Scale), while the World Health Organization (WHO) QoL, the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale and a satisfaction score were completed by caregivers. Results Patients' scores at the clinical scales did not show statistically significant differences from T0 to T3. A trend toward the improvement of caregivers' QoL, anxiety and depression, as well as a high degree of satisfaction with regard to the intervention, were reported. The economic evaluation showed an average cost/day for a patient of about €70. Discussion Preliminary data suggest that the use of telemonitoring services in the management of persons affected by DoC is feasible and well accepted by caregivers, with a potential positive effect on their mood and QoL. Therefore, telemonitoring should be considered in the management of DoC patients to favour discharge from acute care and to support families in home care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of a National Telemedicine Diabetic Retinopathy Screening Program in Singapore.
Abstract: PURPOSE: To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of a new telemedicine technician-based assessment relative to an existing model of family physician (FP)-based assessment of diabetic retinopathy (DR) in Singapore from the health system and societal perspectives.
DESIGN: Model-based, cost-effectiveness analysis of the Singapore Integrated Diabetic Retinopathy Program (SiDRP).
PARTICIPANTS: A hypothetical cohort of patients aged 55 years with type 2 diabetes previously not screened for DR.
METHODS: The SiDRP is a new telemedicine-based DR screening program using trained technicians to assess retinal photographs. We compared the cost-effectiveness of SiDRP with the existing model in which FPs assess photographs. We developed a hybrid decision tree/Markov model to simulate the costs, effectiveness, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of SiDRP relative to FP-based DR screening over a lifetime horizon. We estimated the costs from the health system and societal perspectives. Effectiveness was measured in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Result robustness was calculated using deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The ICER.
RESULTS: From the societal perspective that takes into account all costs and effects, the telemedicine-based DR screening model had significantly lower costs (total cost savings of S$173 per person) while generating similar QALYs compared with the physician-based model (i.e., 13.1 QALYs). From the health system perspective that includes only direct medical costs, the cost savings are S$144 per person. By extrapolating these data to approximately 170 000 patients with diabetes currently being screened yearly for DR in Singapore's primary care polyclinics, the present value of future cost savings associated with the telemedicine-based model is estimated to be S$29.4 million over a lifetime horizon.
CONCLUSIONS: While generating similar health outcomes, the telemedicine-based DR screening using technicians in the primary care setting saves costs for Singapore compared with the FP model. Our data provide a strong economic rationale to expand the telemedicine-based DR screening program in Singapore and elsewhere.
Label Included: 1

Title: The effectiveness of e-& mHealth interventions to promote physical activity and healthy diets in developing countries: A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Promoting physical activity and healthy eating is important to combat the unprecedented rise in NCDs in many developing countries. Using modern information-and communication technologies to deliver physical activity and diet interventions is particularly promising considering the increased proliferation of such technologies in many developing countries. The objective of this systematic review is to investigate the effectiveness of e-& mHealth interventions to promote physical activity and healthy diets in developing countries.
METHODS: Major databases and grey literature sources were searched to retrieve studies that quantitatively examined the effectiveness of e-& mHealth interventions on physical activity and diet outcomes in developing countries. Additional studies were retrieved through citation alerts and scientific social media allowing study inclusion until August 2016. The CONSORT checklist was used to assess the risk of bias of the included studies.
RESULTS: A total of 15 studies conducted in 13 developing countries in Europe, Africa, Latin-and South America and Asia were included in the review. The majority of studies enrolled adults who were healthy or at risk of diabetes or hypertension. The average intervention length was 6.4 months, and text messages and the Internet were the most frequently used intervention delivery channels. Risk of bias across the studies was moderate (55.7 % of the criteria fulfilled). Eleven studies reported significant positive effects of an e-& mHealth intervention on physical activity and/or diet behaviour. Respectively, 50 % and 70 % of the interventions were effective in promoting physical activity and healthy diets.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of studies demonstrated that e-& mHealth interventions were effective in promoting physical activity and healthy diets in developing countries. Future interventions should use more rigorous study designs, investigate the cost-effectiveness and reach of interventions, and focus on emerging technologies, such as smart phone apps and wearable activity trackers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The review protocol can be retrieved from the PROSPERO database (Registration ID: CRD42015029240 ).
Label Included: 0

Title: An Efficient Searchable Encryption Against Keyword Guessing Attacks for Sharable Electronic Medical Records in Cloud-based System.
Abstract: Preserving the privacy of electronic medical records (EMRs) is extremely important especially when medical systems adopt cloud services to store patients' electronic medical records. Considering both the privacy and the utilization of EMRs, some medical systems apply searchable encryption to encrypt EMRs and enable authorized users to search over these encrypted records. Since individuals would like to share their EMRs with multiple persons, how to design an efficient searchable encryption for sharable EMRs is still a very challenge work. In this paper, we propose a cost-efficient secure channel free searchable encryption (SCF-PEKS) scheme for sharable EMRs. Comparing with existing SCF-PEKS solutions, our scheme reduces the storage overhead and achieves better computation performance. Moreover, our scheme can guard against keyword guessing attack, which is neglected by most of the existing schemes. Finally, we implement both our scheme and a latest medical-based scheme to evaluate the performance. The evaluation results show that our scheme performs much better performance than the latest one for sharable EMRs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Type 2 Diabetes Patients Benefit from the COMODITY12 mHealth System: Results of a Randomised Trial.
Abstract: Patient acceptance is one of the major barriers toward widespread use of mHealth systems. The aim of this study was to assess system operability and whole trial feasibility, including patients' experience with their use of COMMODITY12 mHealth system under. Secondary study aims included assessment of several metabolic parameters as well as patient adherence to the treatment. This was a prospective parallel-arm randomized controlled trial in outpatients diagnosed with DM2, being treated in the primary care settings in Lodz region, Poland, with 6 weeks period of follow-up. Patients opinions were collected with 7-item questionnaire, assessing different aspects of system use, as well as EuroQol-5D-5 L questionnaire, assessing health-related quality of life. Sixty patients (female, 24, male, 36, mean age +/- SD 59.5 +/- 6.8) completed study. All four layers of the COMMODITY12 system proved to work smooth under real-life conditions, without major problems. All dimensions of experience with system use were assessed well, with maximum values for clearness of instructions, and ease of use (4.80, and 4.63, respectively). Health related quality of life, as assessed with cumulative utility measure, improved significantly in COMMODITY12 system users (P < 0.05). mHealth system modestly improved glycaemic and blood pressure control, assuring high level of patient adherence with overall adherence reaching 92.9 %. Study proved that the COMODITY12 system is well accepted by type 2 diabetes patients taking part in clinical trial, leading to several clinical benefits, and improved quality of life. Nevertheless, before future commercialisation of the system, several minor problems identified during the study need to be addressed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Barriers to Electronic Health Record Adoption: a Systematic Literature Review.
Abstract: Federal efforts and local initiatives to increase adoption and use of electronic health records (EHRs) continue, particularly since the enactment of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act. Roughly one in four hospitals not adopted even a basic EHR system. A review of the barriers may help in understanding the factors deterring certain healthcare organizations from implementation. We wanted to assemble an updated and comprehensive list of adoption barriers of EHR systems in the United States. Authors searched CINAHL, MEDLINE, and Google Scholar, and accepted only articles relevant to our primary objective. Reviewers independently assessed the works highlighted by our search and selected several for review. Through multiple consensus meetings, authors tapered articles to a final selection most germane to the topic (n = 27). Each article was thoroughly examined by multiple authors in order to achieve greater validity. Authors identified 39 barriers to EHR adoption within the literature selected for the review. These barriers appeared 125 times in the literature; the most frequently mentioned barriers were regarding cost, technical concerns, technical support, and resistance to change. Despite federal and local incentives, the initial cost of adopting an EHR is a common existing barrier. The other most commonly mentioned barriers include technical support, technical concerns, and maintenance/ongoing costs. Policy makers should consider incentives that continue to reduce implementation cost, possibly aimed more directly at organizations that are known to have lower adoption rates, such as small hospitals in rural areas.
Label Included: 0

Title: Fracture in the Elderly Multidisciplinary Rehabilitation (FEMuR): a phase II randomised feasibility study of a multidisciplinary rehabilitation package following hip fracture.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To conduct a rigorous feasibility study for a future definitive parallel-group randomised controlled trial (RCT) and economic evaluation of an enhanced rehabilitation package for hip fracture.
SETTING: Recruitment from 3 acute hospitals in North Wales. Intervention delivery in the community.
PARTICIPANTS: Older adults (aged ≥65) who received surgical treatment for hip fracture, lived independently prior to fracture, had mental capacity (assessed by clinical team) and received rehabilitation in the North Wales area.
INTERVENTION: Remote randomisation to usual care (control) or usual care+enhanced rehabilitation package (intervention), including six additional home-based physiotherapy sessions delivered by a physiotherapist or technical instructor, novel information workbook and goal-setting diary.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary: Barthel Activities of Daily Living (BADL). Secondary measures included Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living scale (NEADL), EQ-5D, ICECAP capability, a suite of self-efficacy, psychosocial and service-use measures and costs. Outcome measures were assessed at baseline and 3-month follow-up by blinded researchers.
RESULTS: 62 participants were recruited, 61 randomised (control 32; intervention 29) and 49 (79%) completed 3-month follow-up. Minimal differences occurred between the 2 groups for most outcomes, including BADL (adjusted mean difference 0.5). The intervention group showed a medium-sized improvement in the NEADL relative to the control group, with an adjusted mean difference between groups of 3.0 (Cohen's d 0.63), and a trend for greater improvement in self-efficacy and mental health, but with small effect sizes. The mean cost of delivering the intervention was £231 per patient. There was a small relative improvement in quality-adjusted life year in the intervention group. No serious adverse events relating to the intervention were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: The trial methods were feasible in terms of eligibility, recruitment and retention. The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the rehabilitation package should be tested in a phase III RCT.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN22464643; Results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical and Economic Impact of a Digital, Remotely-Delivered Intensive Behavioral Counseling Program on Medicare Beneficiaries at Risk for Diabetes and Cardiovascular Disease.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease impose substantial clinical and economic burdens for seniors (age 65 and above) and the Medicare program. Intensive Behavioral Counseling (IBC) interventions like the National Diabetes Prevention Program (NDPP), have demonstrated effectiveness in reducing excess body weight and lowering or delaying morbidity onset. This paper estimated the potential health implications and medical savings of a digital version of IBC modeled after the NDPP.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Participants in this digital IBC intervention, the Omada program, include 1,121 overweight or obese seniors with additional risk factors for diabetes or heart disease. Weight changes were objectively measured via participant use of a networked weight scale. Participants averaged 6.8% reduction in body weight within 26 weeks, and 89% of participants completed 9 or more of the 16 core phase lessons. We used a Markov-based microsimulation model to simulate the impact of weight loss on future health states and medical expenditures over 10 years. Cumulative per capita medical expenditure savings over 3, 5 and 10 years ranged from $1,720 to 1,770 (3 years), $3,840 to $4,240 (5 years) and $11,550 to $14,200 (10 years). The range reflects assumptions of weight re-gain similar to that seen in the DPP clinical trial (lower bound) or minimal weight re-gain aligned with age-adjusted national averages (upper bound). The estimated net economic benefit after IBC costs is $10,250 to $12,840 cumulative over 10 years. Simulation outcomes suggest reduced incidence of diabetes by 27-41% for participants with prediabetes, and stroke by approximately 15% over 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: A digital, remotely-delivered IBC program can help seniors at risk for diabetes and cardiovascular disease achieve significant weight loss, reduces risk for diabetes and cardiovascular disease, and achieve meaningful medical cost savings. These findings affirm recommendations for IBC coverage by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of telehealth for patients with depression: evidence from the Healthlines randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Depression is a prevalent long-term condition that is associated with substantial resource use. Telehealth may offer a cost-effective means of supporting the management of people with depression.
AIMS: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of a telehealth intervention ('Healthlines') for patients with depression.
METHOD: A prospective patient-level economic evaluation conducted alongside a randomised controlled trial. Patients were recruited through primary care, and the intervention was delivered via a telehealth service. Participants with a confirmed diagnosis of depression and PHQ-9 score ≥10 were recruited from 43 English general practices. A series of up to 10 scripted, theory-led, telephone encounters with health information advisers supported participants to effect a behaviour change, use online resources, optimise medication and improve adherence. The intervention was delivered alongside usual care and was designed to support rather than duplicate primary care. Cost-effectiveness from a combined health and social care perspective was measured by net monetary benefit at the end of 12 months of follow-up, calculated from incremental cost and incremental quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Cost-consequence analysis included cost of lost productivity, participant out-of-pocket expenditure and the clinical outcome.
RESULTS: A total of 609 participants were randomised - 307 to receive the Healthlines intervention plus usual care and 302 to receive usual care alone. Forty-five per cent of participants had missing quality of life data, 41% had missing cost data and 51% of participants had missing data on either cost or utility, or both. Multiple imputation was used for the base-case analysis. The intervention was associated with incremental mean per-patient National Health Service/personal social services cost of £168 (95% CI £43 to £294) and an incremental QALY gain of 0.001 (95% CI -0.023 to 0.026). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was £132 630. Net monetary benefit at a cost-effectiveness threshold of £20 000 was -£143 (95% CI -£164 to -£122) and the probability of the intervention being cost-effective at this threshold value was 0.30. Productivity costs were higher in the intervention arm, but out-of-pocket expenses were lower.
CONCLUSIONS: The Healthlines service was acceptable to patients as a means of condition management, and response to treatment after 4 months was higher for participants randomised to the intervention. However, the positive average intervention effect size was modest, and incremental costs were high relative to a small incremental QALY gain at 12 months. The intervention is not likely to be cost-effective in its current form.
DECLARATION OF INTEREST: None.
COPYRIGHT AND USAGE: © The Royal College of Psychiatrists 2016. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence.
Label Included: 0

Title: Building a learning health system using clinical registers: a non-technical introduction.
Abstract: Purpose The purpose of this paper is to describe how clinical registers were designed and used to serve multiple purposes in three health systems, in order to contribute practical experience for building learning healthcare systems. Design/methodology/approach Case description and comparison of the development and use of clinical registries, drawing on participants' experience and published and unpublished research. Findings Clinical registers and new software systems enable fact-based decisions by patients, clinicians, and managers about better care, as well as new and more economical research. Designing systems to present the data for users' daily work appears to be the key to effective use of the potential afforded by digital data. Research limitations/implications The case descriptions draw on the experience of the authors who were involved in the development of the registers, as well as on published and unpublished research. There is limited data about outcomes for patients or cost-effectiveness. Practical implications The cases show the significant investments which are needed to make effective use of clinical register data. There are limited skills to design and apply the digital systems to make the best use of the systems and to reduce their disadvantages. More use can be made of digital data for quality improvement, patient empowerment and support, and for research. Social implications Patients can use their data combined with other data to self-manage their chronic conditions. There are challenges in designing and using systems so that those with lower health and computer literacy and incomes also benefit from these systems, otherwise the digital revolution may increase health inequalities. Originality/value The paper shows three real examples of clinical registers which have been developed as part of their host health systems' strategies to develop learning healthcare systems. The paper gives a simple non-technical introduction and overview for clinicians, managers, policy-advisors and improvers of what is possible and the challenges, and highlights the need to shape the design and implementation of digital infrastructures in healthcare services to serve users.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telediagnosis with Confocal Microscopy: A Reality or a Dream?
Abstract: Reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM) is becoming more popular among dermatologists aiming to improve their bedside diagnostic accuracy and reduce unnecessary removal of benign cutaneous lesions. With increased interest in the field, limitation of experts, and dedicated training programs, telemedicine application to RCM (teleconfocal) helps to connect patients with experts at a distance. Diagnostic accuracy of store-and-forward telemedicine review of RCM images, patient safety, and cost-effectiveness are important considerations for proper acceptance and usage of the technology in the medical community.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evidence-based behavioral interventions to promote diabetes management in children, adolescents, and families.
Abstract: As members of multidisciplinary diabetes care teams, psychologists are well-suited to support self-management among youth with Type 1 diabetes (T1D) and Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and their families. Psychological and behavioral interventions can promote adherence to the complex and demanding diabetes care regimen, with the goals of promoting high quality of life, achieving optimal glycemic control, and ultimately preventing disease-related complications. This article reviews well-researched contemporary behavioral interventions to promote optimal diabetes family- and self-management and health outcomes in youth with T1D, in the context of key behavioral theories. The article summarizes the evidence base for established diabetes skills training programs, family interventions, and multisystemic interventions, and introduces emerging evidence for technology and mobile health interventions and health care delivery system interventions. Next steps in behavioral T1D intervention research include tailoring interventions to meet individuals' and families' unique needs and strengths, and systematically evaluating cost-effectiveness to advocate for dissemination of well-developed interventions. Although in its infancy, this article reviews observational and intervention research for youth with T2D and their families and discusses lessons for future research with this population. Interventions for youth with T2D will need to incorporate family members, consider cultural and family issues related to health behaviors, and take into account competing priorities for resources. As psychologists and behavioral scientists, we must advocate for the integration of behavioral health into routine pediatric diabetes care in order to effectively promote meaningful change in the behavioral and medical well-being of youth and families living with T1D and T2D. (PsycINFO Database Record
Label Included: 0

Title: Moodle: The cost effective solution for internet cognitive behavioral therapy (I-CBT) interventions.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: The cost-effectiveness of hospital-based telephone coaching for people with type 2 diabetes: a 10 year modelling analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) is a burdensome condition for individuals to live with and an increasingly costly condition for health services to treat. Cost-effective treatment strategies are required to delay the onset and slow the progression of diabetes related complications. The Diabetes Telephone Coaching Study (DTCS) demonstrated that telephone coaching is an intervention that may improve the risk factor status and diabetes management practices of people with T2DM. Measuring the cost effectiveness of this intervention is important to inform funding decisions that may facilitate the translation of this research into clinical practice. The purpose of this study is to assess the cost-effectiveness of telephone coaching, compared to usual diabetes care, in participants with poorly controlled T2DM.
METHODS: A cost utility analysis was undertaken using the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Outcomes Model to extrapolate outcomes collected at 6 months in the DTCS over a 10 year time horizon. The intervention's impact on life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) and costs was estimated. Costs were reported from a health system perspective. A 5 % discount rate was applied to all future costs and effects. One-way sensitivity analyses were conducted to reflect uncertainty surrounding key input parameters.
RESULTS: The intervention dominated the control condition in the base-case analysis, contributing to cost savings of $3327 per participant, along with non-significant improvements in QALE (0.2 QALE) and life expectancy (0.3 years).
CONCLUSIONS: The cost of delivering the telephone coaching intervention continuously, for 10 years, was fully recovered through cost savings and a trend towards net health benefits. Findings of cost savings and net health benefits are rare and should prove attractive to decision makers who will determine whether this intervention is implemented into clinical practice.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ACTRN12609000075280.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness modelling of telehealth for patients with raised cardiovascular disease risk: evidence from a cohort simulation conducted alongside the Healthlines randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate the long-term cost-effectiveness (measured as the ratio of incremental NHS cost to incremental quality-adjusted life years) of a telehealth intervention for patients with raised cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk.
DESIGN: A cohort simulation model developed as part of the economic evaluation conducted alongside the Healthlines randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Patients recruited through primary care, and intervention delivered via telehealth service.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants with a 10-year CVD risk ≥20%, as measured by the QRISK2 algorithm, and with at least 1 modifiable risk factor, individually randomised from 42 general practices in England.
INTERVENTION: A telehealth service delivered over a 12-month period. The intervention involved a series of responsive, theory-led encounters between patients and trained health information advisors who provided access to information resources and supported medication adherence and coordination of care.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost-effectiveness measured by net monetary benefit over the simulated lifetime of trial participants from a UK National Health Service perspective.
RESULTS: The probability that the intervention was cost-effective depended on the duration of the effect of the intervention. The intervention was cost-effective with high probability if effects persisted over the lifetime of intervention recipients. The probability of cost-effectiveness was lower for shorter durations of effect.
CONCLUSIONS: The intervention was likely to be cost-effective under a lifetime perspective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN27508731; Results.
Label Included: 0

Title: What cost components are relevant for economic evaluations of palliative care, and what approaches are used to measure these costs? A systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: It is important to understand the costs of palliative and end-of-life care in order to inform decisions regarding cost allocation. However, economic research in palliative care is very limited and little is known about the range and extent of the costs that are involved in palliative care provision.
AIM: To undertake a systematic review of the health and social care literature to determine the range of financial costs related to a palliative care approach and explore approaches used to measure these costs.
DESIGN: A systematic review of empirical literature with thematic synthesis. Study quality was evaluated using the Weight of Evidence Framework.
DATA SOURCES: The databases CINAHL, Cochrane, PsycINFO and Medline were searched from 1995 to November 2015 for empirical studies which presented data on the financial costs associated with palliative care.
RESULTS: A total of 38 papers met our inclusion criteria. Components of palliative care costs were incurred within four broad domains: hospital care, community or home-based care, hospice care and informal care. These costs could be considered from the economic viewpoint of three providers: state or government, insurers/third-party/not-for-profit organisations and patient and family and/or society. A wide variety of costing approaches were used to derive costs.
CONCLUSION: The evidence base regarding the economics of palliative care is sparse, particularly relating to the full economic costs of palliative care. Our review provides a framework for considering these costs from a variety of economic viewpoints; however, further research is required to develop and refine methodologies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Determining the cost of implementing and operating a remote patient monitoring programme for the elderly with chronic conditions: A systematic review of economic evaluations.
Abstract: Introduction Remote patient monitoring (RPM) in conjunction with home nursing visits is becoming increasingly popular for the follow-up of patients with chronic conditions and evidence exists that it improves patients' health outcomes. Current cost data is reported inconsistently and often gathered from studies of poor methodological quality, making it difficult for decision-makers who consider implementing this service in their organizations. This study reviewed the cost of RPM programmes targeting elderly patients with chronic conditions. Methods After evaluation against the inclusion and exclusion criteria and appraisal against two criteria which are important for economic evaluations, data from selected studies were extracted and grouped into meaningful cost categories, then adjusted to reflect November 2015 US dollars. Results In the 13 selected studies, the newly-created cost category 'Combined intervention cost' (reflecting equipment purchasing, servicing and monitoring cost) for the various RPM programmes ranged from US$275-US$7963 per patient per year. The three main findings are: (a) RPM programme costs have decreased since 2004 due to cheaper technology; (b) monitoring a single vital sign is likely to be less costly than monitoring multiple vital signs; and (c) programmes targeting hypertension or congestive heart failure are less costly than those targeting respiratory diseases or multiple conditions. Conclusions This review recommends that future studies present their cost data with more granularity, that grouping of costs should be minimized and that any assumptions, such as amortization, should be made explicit. In addition, studies should compare programmes with similar characteristics in terms of type of conditions, number of vital signs monitored, etc. for more generalizable results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Warm Handoff Versus Fax Referral for Linking Hospitalized Smokers to Quitlines.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Few hospitals treat patients' tobacco dependence. To be effective, hospital-initiated cessation interventions must provide at least 1 month of supportive contact post-discharge.
STUDY DESIGN: Individually randomized clinical trial. Recruitment commenced July 2011; analyses were conducted October 2014-June 2015.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: The study was conducted in two large Midwestern hospitals. Participants included smokers who were aged ≥18 years, planned to stay quit after discharge, and spoke English or Spanish.
INTERVENTION: Hospital-based cessation counselors delivered the intervention. For patients randomized to warm handoff, staff immediately called the quitline from the bedside and handed the phone to participants for enrollment and counseling. Participants randomized to fax were referred on the day of hospital discharge.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcomes at 6 months included quitline enrollment/adherence, medication use, biochemically verified cessation, and cost effectiveness.
RESULTS: Significantly more warm handoff than fax participants enrolled in quitline (99.6% vs 59.6%; relative risk, 1.67; 95% CI=1.65, 1.68). One in four (25.4% warm handoff, 25.3% fax) were verified to be abstinent at 6-month follow-up; this did not differ significantly between groups (relative risk, 1.02; 95% CI=0.82, 1.24). Cessation medication use in the hospital and receipt of a prescription for medication at discharge did not differ between groups; however, significantly more fax participants reported using cessation medication post-discharge (32% vs 25%, p=0.01). The average incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of enrolling participants into warm handoff was $0.14. Hospital-borne costs were significantly lower in warm handoff than in fax ($5.77 vs $9.41, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: One in four inpatient smokers referred to quitline by either method were abstinent at 6 months post-discharge. Among motivated smokers, fax referral and warm handoff are efficient and comparatively effective ways to link smokers with evidence-based care. For hospitals, warm handoff is a less expensive and more effective method for enrolling smokers in quitline services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine to Improve Access to Specialist Care in Fetal Heart Rate Monitoring: Analysis of 17 Years of TOCOMAT Network Clinical Activity.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The objective of this article is to provide an overview of the clinical experience of our telemedicine network (TOCOMAT) for fetal well-being assessment through computerized Cardiotocography (cCTG), analyzing cultural, socioeconomic, and environmental conditions of pregnant women and its economic sustainability over time.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used the central data store, including all cCTG records collected in Campania region (Italy) during 17 years of activity. The Operations Center acquires the traces recorded in the Remote Units and simultaneously performs a complex fetal heart rate analysis. An Internet or phone conference calling is available to discuss the information transmitted. Finally, the report is send back to the Remote Units.
RESULTS: The number of cCTG traces performed was constantly increasing, despite the progressive reduction in the number of peripheral units involved. Pregnant women in Remote Unit group were younger and overweight and showed a higher incidence of diabetes and fetal defects than Operations Center ones. Moreover, a high rate of African migrant women and low socioeconomic and cultural standards were found in Remote Unit group. The cost analysis showed an economic advantage both in the reduction of inappropriate admissions and in the improvement of admission indicators (hospital stay days) for pregnant women.
DISCUSSION: The global economic recession has had a significant impact on the Italian regional healthcare system and socioeconomic deprivation.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine could avoid unnecessary referral to Level III centers (Hospital) in Campania region, where the average population density is very high, allowing equal access to ultra-specialist assessment irrespective of the geographical location of the pregnant woman with medium to high risk, as well as rationalizing the costs for maternal and fetal care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of telemonitoring of diabetic foot ulcer patients.
Abstract: This study compared the cost-effectiveness of telemonitoring with standard monitoring for patients with diabetic foot ulcers. The economic evaluation was nested within a pragmatic randomised controlled trial. A total of 374 patients were randomised to either telemonitoring or standard monitoring. Telemonitoring consisted of two tele-consultations in the patient's own home and one consultation at the outpatient clinic; standard monitoring consisted of three outpatient clinic consultations. Total healthcare costs were estimated over a 6-month period at individual patient level, from a healthcare sector perspective. The bootstrap method was used to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, and one-way sensitivity analyses were performed. Telemonitoring costs were found to be €2039 less per patient compared to standard monitoring; however, this difference was not statistically significant. Amputation rate was similar in the two groups. In conclusion, a telemonitoring service in this form had similar costs and effects as standard monitoring.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cancer@Work - a nurse-led, stepped-care, e-health intervention to enhance the return to work of patients with cancer: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although the importance of work for patients with cancer is nowadays more acknowledged both in the literature as well as in cancer survivorship care, effective interventions targeting the return to work of these patients are still scarce. Therefore, we developed a nurse-led, stepped-care, e-health intervention aimed at enhancing the return to work of patients with cancer. The objective of this study is to describe the content of the intervention and the study design used to evaluate the feasibility and (cost) effectiveness of the intervention.
METHODS: We designed a multi-centre randomised controlled trial with a follow-up of 12 months. Patients who have paid employment at the time of diagnosis, are on sick leave and are between 18-62 years old will be eligible to participate. After patients have signed the informed consent form and filled in the baseline questionnaire, they are randomly allocated to either the nurse-led, stepped-care, e-health intervention called Cancer@Work, or care as usual. The primary outcome is sustainable return to work. Secondary outcomes are sick leave days, work ability, work functioning, quality of life, quality of working life and time from initial sick leave to full return to work without extensive need for recovery. The feasibility of the Cancer@Work intervention and direct and indirect costs will be determined. Outcomes will be assessed by questionnaires at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months of follow-up.
DISCUSSION: The results of this study will provide new insights into the feasibility and (cost) effectiveness of Cancer@Work, a nurse-led, stepped-care, e-health intervention for cancer patients aimed at enhancing their return to work. If proven effective, the intention is to implement the Cancer@Work intervention in usual psycho-oncological care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NTR (Netherlands Trial Registry): NTR5190 . Registered on 18 June 2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: Assessment of Patients' Perception of Telemedicine Services Using the Service User Technology Acceptability Questionnaire.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this paper is to assess if similar telemedicine services integrated in the management of different chronic diseases are acceptable and well perceived by patients or if there are any negative perceptions.
THEORY AND METHODS: Participants suffering from different chronic diseases were enrolled in Veneto Region and gathered into clusters. Each cluster received a similar telemedicine service equipped with different disease-specific measuring devices. Participants were patients with diabetes (n = 163), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (n = 180), congestive heart failure (n = 140) and Cardiac Implantable Electronic Devices (n = 1635). The Service User Technology Acceptability Questionnaire (SUTAQ) was initially translated, culturally adapted and pretested and subsequently used to assess patients' perception of telemedicine. Data were collected after 3 months and after 12 months from the beginning of the intervention. Data for patients with implantable devices was collected only at 12 months.
RESULTS: Results at 12 months for all clusters are similar and assessed a positive perception of telemedicine. The SUTAQ results for clusters 2 (diabetes), 5 (COPD) and 7 (CHF) after 3 months of intervention were confirmed after 12 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine was perceived as a viable addition to usual care. A positive perception for telemedicine services isn't a transitory effect, but extends over the course of time.
Label Included: 0

Title: Fast detection of leaf pigments and isoprenoids for ecophysiological studies, plant phenotyping and validating remote-sensing of vegetation.
Abstract: Rapid developments in remote-sensing of vegetation and high-throughput precision plant phenotyping promise a range of real-life applications using leaf optical properties for non-destructive assessment of plant performance. Use of leaf optical properties for assessing plant performance requires the ability to use photosynthetic pigments as proxies for physiological properties and the ability to detect these pigments fast, reliably and at low cost. We describe a simple and cost-effective protocol for the rapid analysis of chlorophylls, carotenoids and tocopherols using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Many existing methods are based on the expensive solvent acetonitrile, take a long time or do not include lutein epoxide and α-carotene. We aimed to develop an HPLC method which separates all major chlorophylls and carotenoids as well as lutein epoxide, α-carotene and α-tocopherol. Using a C30 -column and a mobile phase with a gradient of methanol, methyl-tert-butyl-ether (MTBE) and water, our method separates the above pigments and isoprenoids within 28 min. The broad applicability of our method is demonstrated using samples from various plant species and tissue types, e.g. leaves of Arabidopsis and avocado plants, several deciduous and conifer tree species, various crops, stems of parasitic dodder, fruit of tomato, roots of carrots and Chlorella algae. In comparison to previous methods, our method is very affordable, fast and versatile and can be used to analyze all major photosynthetic pigments that contribute to changes in leaf optical properties and which are of interest in most ecophysiological studies.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Economic Effect of Home Health Care Services for Community-dwelling Vulnerable Populations].
Abstract: PURPOSE: In this study the costs and benefits of a home health care program were examined to evaluate the economic feasibility of the program.
METHODS: The study participants included 349 patients in the community who had been registered at a home health care center for 5 years. The costs and benefits of the program were analyzed using performance data and health data. The benefits were classified as the effects of pressure ulcer care, skin wound care and catheters management. The program effect was evaluated on the change of progress using transition probability. Benefits were divided into direct benefit such as the savings in medical costs and transportation costs, and indirect benefits which included saving in productivity loss and lost future income.
RESULTS: Participants had an average of 1.82 health problems. The input cost was KRW 36.8~153.3 million, the benefit was KRW 95.4~279.7 million. Direct benefits accounted for 53.4%~81.2%, and was higher than indirect benefits. The net benefit was greater than 0 from 2006 to 2009, and then dropped below 0 in 2010.
CONCLUSION: The average net benefit during 5 years was over 0 and the benefit cost ratoi was over 1.00, indicating that the home health care program si economical.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic analysis of remote monitoring of cardiac implantable electronic devices: Results of the Health Economics Evaluation Registry for Remote Follow-up (TARIFF) study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Remote monitoring (RM) of cardiac implantable electronic devices has been demonstrated to improve outpatient clinic workflow and patient management. However, few data are available on the socioeconomic impact of RM.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the costs and benefits of RM compared with standard care (SC).
METHODS: We used 12-month patient data from the Health Economics Evaluation Registry for Remote Follow-up (TARIFF) study (N = 209; RM: n = 102 (48.81%); SC: n = 107 (51.19%)). Cost comparison was made from 2 perspectives: the health care system (HCS) and patients. The use of health care resources was defined on the basis of hospital clinical folders. Out-of-pocket expenses were reported directly by patients.
RESULTS: HCS perspective: The overall mean annual cost per patient in the SC group (€1044.89 ± €1990.47) was significantly higher than in the RM group (€482.87 ± €2488.10) (P < .0001), with a reduction of 53.87% being achieved in the RM group. The primary driver of cost reduction was the cost of cardiovascular hospitalizations (SC: €`886.67 ± €1979.13 vs RM: €432.34 ± €2488.10; P = .0030). Patient and caregiver perspective: The annual cost incurred by patients was significantly higher in the SC group than in the RM group (SC: €169.49 ± €189.50 vs RM: €56.87 ± €80.22; P < .0001). Patients' quality-adjusted life-years were not significantly different between the groups. Provider perspective: The total number of inhospital device follow-up visits was reduced by 58.78% in the RM group.
CONCLUSION: RM of patients with cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) is cost saving from the perspectives of the HCS, patients, and caregivers. Introducing appropriate reimbursements will make RM sustainable even for the provider, i.e. the hospitals which provide the service and encourage widespread adoption of RM.
Label Included: 0

Title: Quality of care for remote orthopaedic consultations using telemedicine: a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Decentralised services using outreach clinics or modern technology are methods to reduce both patient transports and costs to the healthcare system. Telemedicine consultations via videoconference are one such modality. Before new technologies are implemented, it is important to investigate both the quality of care given and the economic impact from the use of this new technology. The aim of this clinical trial was to study the quality of planned remote orthopaedic consultations by help of videoconference.
METHOD: We performed a randomised controlled trial (RCT) with two parallel groups: video-assisted remote consultations at a regional medical centre (RMC) as an intervention versus standard consultation in the orthopaedic outpatient clinic at the University Hospital of North Norway (UNN) as a control. The participants were patients referred to or scheduled for a consultation at the orthopaedic outpatient clinic. The orthopaedic surgeons evaluated each consultation they performed by completing a questionnaire. The primary outcome measurement was the difference in the sum score calculated from this questionnaire, which was evaluated by the non-inferiority of the intervention group. The study design was based on the intention to treat principle. Ancillary analyses regarding complications, the number of consultations per patient, operations, patients who were referred again and the duration of consultations were performed.
RESULTS: Four-hundred patients were web-based randomised. Of these, 199 (98 %) underwent remote consultation and 190 (95 %) underwent standard consultation. The primary outcome, the sum score of the specialist evaluation, was significantly lower (i.e. 'better') at UNN compared to RMC (1.72 versus 1.82, p = 0.0030). The 90 % confidence interval (CI) for the difference in score (0.05, 0.17) was within the non-inferiority margin. The orthopaedic surgeons involved evaluated 98 % of the video-assisted consultations as 'good' or 'very good'. In the ancillary analyses, there was no significant difference between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This study supports the argument that it is safe to offer video-assisted consultations for selected orthopaedic patients. We did not find any serious events related to the mode of consultation. Further assessments of the economic aspects and patient satisfaction are needed before we can recommend its wider application.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00616837.
Label Included: 0

Title: FINDING NEW VALUE IN TELEMEDICINE: Providers ramp up use to boost access to cost-effective care.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Women, family medicine, and career choice: An opportunity cost analysis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This study compared the cost of physician versus physician assistant (PA) education for women practicing in family medicine.
METHODS: Using 2013 salary survey data from both the Medical Group Management Association and the American Academy of PAs as well as other publicly available data sources, the authors compared the current net present value (NPV) of physician and PA training for women practicing in family medicine.
RESULTS: Considering a base case scenario involving a 24-year-old woman, the NPV to become a family medicine physician was $2,015,000 compared with an NPV of $1,751,000 to become a family medicine PA. Alternative projections produced an NPV for PA training that slightly exceeded the NPV for family medicine physician training.
CONCLUSIONS: For a woman practicing in family medicine, becoming a physician or a PA offers similar financial rewards.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparative Effectiveness of an Internet-Based Smoking Cessation Intervention Versus Clinic-Based Specialty Care for Veterans.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The primary objective of this project was to examine the effectiveness of an Internet-based smoking cessation intervention combined with a tele-health medication clinic for nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) compared to referral to clinic-based smoking cessation care.
METHODS: A total of 413 patients were proactively recruited from the Durham VA Medical Center and followed for 12 months. Patients were randomized to receive either a referral to VA specialty smoking cessation care (control) or to the Internet intervention and tele-health medication clinic. Primary outcomes included (1) intervention reach, (2) self-reported 7-day point prevalence abstinence rates at 3 months and 12 months, and 3) relative cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Reach of the Internet intervention and use of smoking cessation aids were significantly greater compared to the control. At 3 months-post randomization, however, there were no significant differences in quit rates: 17% (95% CI: 12%–23%) in the Internet-based intervention compared to 12% (95% CI: 8%–17%) in the control arm. Similarly, there were no differences in quit rates at 12 months (13% vs. 16%). While costs associated with the Internet arm were higher due to increased penetration and intensity of NRT use, there were no statistically significant differences in the relative cost effectiveness (e.g., life years gained, quality adjusted life years) between the two arms.
CONCLUSIONS: Current results suggest that using an electronic medical record to identify smokers and proactively offering smoking cessation services that are consistent with US Public Health Guidelines can significantly reduce smoking in veterans. Novel interventions that increase the reach of intensive treatment are needed to maximize quit rates in this population.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of telehealth for patients with raised cardiovascular disease risk: evidence from the Healthlines randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of a telehealth intervention for primary care patients with raised cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk.
DESIGN: A prospective within-trial patient-level economic evaluation conducted alongside a randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Patients recruited through primary care, and intervention delivered via telehealth service.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults with a 10-year CVD risk ≥20%, as measured by the QRISK2 algorithm, with at least 1 modifiable risk factor.
INTERVENTION: A series of up to 13 scripted, theory-led telehealth encounters with healthcare advisors, who supported participants to make behaviour change, use online resources, optimise medication and improve adherence. Participants in the control arm received usual care.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost-effectiveness measured by net monetary benefit at the end of 12 months of follow-up, calculated from incremental cost and incremental quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Productivity impacts, participant out-of-pocket expenditure and the clinical outcome were presented in a cost-consequences framework.
RESULTS: 641 participants were randomised-325 to receive the telehealth intervention in addition to usual care and 316 to receive only usual care. 18% of participants had missing data on either costs, utilities or both. Multiple imputation was used for the base case results. The intervention was associated with incremental mean per-patient National Health Service (NHS) costs of £138 (95% CI 66 to 211) and an incremental QALY gain of 0.012 (95% CI -0.001 to 0.026). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was £10 859. Net monetary benefit at a cost-effectiveness threshold of £20 000 per QALY was £116 (95% CI -58 to 291), and the probability that the intervention was cost-effective at this threshold value was 0.77. Similar results were obtained from a complete case analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence to suggest that the Healthlines telehealth intervention was likely to be cost-effective at a threshold of £20 000 per QALY.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN27508731; Results. Prospectively registered 05 July 2012.
Label Included: 0

Title: Design, Challenges, and Implications of Quality Improvement Projects Using the Electronic Medical Record: Case Study: A Protocol to Reduce the Burden of Postoperative Atrial Fibrillation.
Abstract: Postoperative atrial fibrillation (POAF) is a frequent complication of cardiac surgery, which results in increased morbidity, mortality, length of stay, and hospital costs. We developed and followed a process map to implement a protocol to decrease POAF: (1) identify stakeholders and form a working committee, (2) formal literature and guideline review, (3) retrospective analysis of current institutional data, (4) data modeling to determine expected effects of change, (4) protocol development and implementation into the electronic medical record, and (5) ongoing review of data and protocol adjustment. Retrospective analysis demonstrated that POAF occurred in 29.8% of all cardiovascular surgery cases. Median length of stay was 2 days longer (P<0.001), and median total variable costs $2495 higher (P<0.001) in POAF patients. Modeling predicted that up to 60 cases of POAF and >$200 000 annually could be saved. A clinically based electronic medical record tool was implemented into the electronic medical record to aid preoperative clinic providers in identifying patients eligible for prophylactic amiodarone. Initial results during the 9-month period after implementation demonstrated a reduction in POAF in patients using the protocol, compared with those who qualified but did not receive amiodarone and those not evaluated (11.1% versus 38.7% and 38.8%; P=0.022); however, only 17.3% of patients used the protocol. A standardized methodological approach to quality improvement and electronic medical record integration has potential to significantly decrease the incidence of POAF, length of stay, and total variable cost in patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass graft and valve surgeries. This framework for quality improvement interventions may be adapted to similar clinical problems beyond POAF.
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost analysis of remote monitoring in a heart failure program.
Abstract: In this study, we examine the cost per outcomes of remote monitoring services in home health care. The methodology followed case matched design via retrospective chart reviews. Results of the chi-square test suggest that there were no significant associations between the intervention and hospital readmissions, χ2 = (1, n = 210, p-value = .71, phi = .71). An independent t-test compared group means of the number of skilled nursing visits and agency costs, p-value of .002 and .000, respectively, favoring the standard of care group. Based on this data set, the home care agency lost $153.46 for each hospital readmission in the intervention group. The cost of care complicated the agency's resources through an increase in nursing visits without offsetting the agency's investment into technology; the cost did not support remote monitoring as a financially viable option to the standard of care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Long-term integrated telerehabilitation of COPD Patients: a multicentre randomised controlled trial (iTrain).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is an effective intervention for the management of people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, available resources are often limited, and many patients bear with poor availability of programmes. Sustaining PR benefits and regular exercise over the long term is difficult without any exercise maintenance strategy. In contrast to traditional centre-based PR programmes, telerehabilitation may promote more effective integration of exercise routines into daily life over the longer term and broaden its applicability and availability. A few studies showed promising results for telerehabilitation, but mostly with short-term interventions. The aim of this study is to compare long-term telerehabilitation with unsupervised exercise training at home and with standard care.
METHODS/DESIGN: An international multicentre randomised controlled trial conducted across sites in three countries will recruit 120 patients with COPD. Participants will be randomly assigned to telerehabilitation, treadmill and control, and followed up for 2 years. The telerehabilitation intervention consists of individualised exercise training at home on a treadmill, telemonitoring by a physiotherapist via videoconferencing using a tablet computer, and self-management via a customised website. Patients in the treadmill arm are provided with a treadmill only to perform unsupervised exercise training at home. Patients in the control arm are offered standard care. The primary outcome is the combined number of hospitalisations and emergency department presentations. Secondary outcomes include changes in health status, quality of life, anxiety and depression, self-efficacy, subjective impression of change, physical performance, level of physical activity, and personal experiences in telerehabilitation.
DISCUSSION: This trial will provide evidence on whether long-term telerehabilitation represents a cost-effective strategy for the follow-up of patients with COPD. The delivery of telerehabilitation services will also broaden the availability of PR and maintenance strategies, especially to those living in remote areas and with no access to centre-based exercise programmes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02258646 .
Label Included: 0

Title: Taking Telemedicine to the Next Level in Diabetes Population Management: a Review of the Endo ECHO Model.
Abstract: Worldwide increases in diabetes prevalence in the face of limited medical resources have prompted international interest in innovative healthcare delivery models. Project ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes) is a "telementoring" program which has been shown to increase capacity for complex disease management in medically underserved regions. In contrast to a traditional telemedicine model which might connect a specialist with one patient, the ECHO model allows for multiple patients to benefit simultaneously by building new expertise. We recently applied the ECHO model to improve health outcomes of patients with complex diabetes (Endo ECHO) living in rural New Mexico. We describe the design of the Endo ECHO intervention and a 4-year, prospective program evaluation assessing health outcomes, utilization patterns, and cost-effectiveness. The Endo ECHO evaluation will demonstrate whether and to what extent this intervention improves outcomes for patients with complex diabetes living in rural New Mexico, and will serve as proof-of-concept for academic medical centers wishing to replicate the model in underserved regions around the world.
Label Included: 0

Title: Creation and assessment of a computerized modelling tool for optimizing planning of home and hospital-based phototherapy.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic evaluation of exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation in patients with a recent acute coronary syndrome.
Abstract: Health care decision-making requires evidence of the cost-effectiveness of medical therapies. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation (ECR) implemented according to guidelines. All the patients (n = 204) had experienced a recent acute coronary syndrome and were randomized to a 1-year ECR (n = 109) or usual care (UC) group (n = 95). The patients' health-related quality of life was followed using the 15D instrument and health care costs were collected from electronic health registries. The cost-effectiveness of ECR was estimated based on intervention and health care costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. The total average cost per patient was lower in ECR than in UC. The incremental cost was divided by the baseline-adjusted incremental QALYs (0.045), yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of -€24511/QALYs. A combined endpoint of mortality, recurrent coronary event, or hospitalization for a heart failure occurred for five patients in ECR and 16 patients in UC (HR 3.9, 95% CI 1.4-10.6, P = 0.004, relative risk reduction 73%, number needed to treat eight). ECR is a dominant treatment option and decreases the occurrence of adverse cardiac events. These results are useful for decision-making when planning optimal utilization of resources in Finnish health care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Effective Use of Free-to-Use Apps in Neurosurgery (FAN) in Developing Countries: From Clinical Decision Making to Educational Courses, Strengthening Health Care Delivery.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE: Financial limitations and the scarcity of technological knowledge are a major hurdle to good communication platforms, data storage, and dissemination of medical knowledge in developing countries. Out of necessity we used free-to-use apps in our practice. We studied the applicability and cost effective aspect of a systematic use of these apps in neurosurgery.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We designed the Free-to-use apps in neurosurgery (FAN) module in 4 phases at Kathmandu Medical College Teaching Hospital over the last 3 years. We used free apps like Viber, Dropbox, Skype, and VLC media player on 3G and Wi-Fi network. Users were trained in ethics and measures to ensure confidentiality and privacy of patient-related data. Endpoints studied were feasibility, reliability, cost effectiveness, and overall satisfaction of the users.
RESULTS: In the FAN module, the Viber app was used to send pictures of digital images via smartphones within 30 minutes, enabling quick decisions by the consultants. Dropbox not only helped store images but also helped quick verification of discharge summaries as early as 15 minutes increasing overall efficiency. With Skype, consultants could be contacted even when they were abroad, and with the use of FAN they remain updated of their patients. By the use of Skype and VLC media player, 2 operative live workshops from abroad were transmitted live with good visual and audio reception, allowing question-and-answer sessions with the faculties. User satisfaction was more than 90%.
CONCLUSIONS: The FAN module helped in quick reliable decision making, allowing for instantaneous communication and storing data and exchange of knowledge across countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Systematic medical assessment, referral and treatment for diabetes care in China using lay family health promoters: protocol for the SMARTDiabetes cluster randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) affects 113.9 million people in China, the largest number of any country in the world (JAMA 310:948-59, 2013). T2DM prevalence has risen dramatically from around 1 % in the 1980s to now over 10 % and is expected to continue rising. Despite the growing disease burden, few people with T2DM are achieving adequate management targets to prevent complications. Health system infrastructure in China is struggling to meet these gaps in care, and innovative, cost-effective and affordable solutions are needed. One promising strategy that may be particularly relevant to the Chinese context is improving support for lay family members to care for their relatives with T2DM.
METHODS: We hypothesise that an interactive mobile health management system can support lay family health promoters (FHP) and healthcare staff to improve clinical outcomes for family members with T2DM through medical assessment, regular monitoring, lifestyle advice and the prescribing of guidelines recommended medications. This intervention will be implemented as a cluster randomised controlled trial involving 80 communities (40 communities in Beijing and 40 rural villages in Hebei province) and 2000 people with T2DM. Outcome analyses will be conducted blinded to intervention allocation. The primary outcome is the proportion of patients achieving ≥2 "ABC" goals (HbA1c <7.0 %, blood pressure (BP) <140/80 mmHg and LDL cholesterol <100 mg/dl or 2.6 mmol/L) at the end of follow-up (Diabetes Care 36(Supplement 1):S11-S66, 2013). Secondary outcomes include the proportion of patients achieving individual ABC targets; mean changes in HbA1c, BP, LDL, renal function (serum creatinine and urinary albumin), body mass index, quality of life (QOL, EQ-5D), and healthcare utilisation from baseline; and cost-effectiveness/utility of intervention. Trial outcomes will be accompanied by detailed process and economic evaluations.
DISCUSSION: The Chinese government has prioritised prevention and treatment of diabetes as 1 of 11 National Basic Public Health Services. Despite great promise for mHealth interventions to improve access to effective health care, there remains uncertainty about how this can be successfully achieved. The findings are likely to inform policy on a scalable strategy to overcome sub-optimal access to effective health care in China.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02726100.
Label Included: 0

Title: Patient Satisfaction with In-Home Telerehabilitation After Total Knee Arthroplasty: Results from a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: Background and Introduction: Telerehabilitation after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is supported by strong evidence on the effectiveness of such intervention and from a cost-benefit point of view. Satisfaction of patients toward in-home telerehabilitation after TKA has not yet been examined thoroughly in large-scale clinical trials. This study aims to compare satisfaction level of patients following in-home telerehabilitation (TELE) after TKA to one of the patients following a usual face-to-face home visit (STD) rehabilitation. Secondarily, to determine if any clinical or personal variables were associated to the level of satisfaction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was embedded in a multicenter randomized controlled trial with 205 patients randomized into two groups. Rehabilitation intervention was the same for both groups; only approach for service delivery differed (telerehabilitation or home visits). Participants were assessed at baseline (before TKA), at hospital discharge, and at 2 and 4 months postdischarge (E4) using functional outcomes. Patient satisfaction was measured using the validated Health Care Satisfaction Questionnaire (HCSQ) at E4.
RESULTS: Characteristics of all participants were similar at baseline. Satisfaction level of both groups did not differ and was very high (over 85%). It was neither correlated to personal characteristics nor to improvements of functional level from preoperative to E4. Satisfaction was rather found associated to walking and stair-climbing performances.
CONCLUSIONS: These results, in conjunction with evidences of clinical effectiveness and cost benefits demonstrated in the same sample of patients, strongly support the use of telerehabilitation to improve access to rehabilitation services and efficiency of service delivery after TKA.
Label Included: 0

Title: Pharmacodynamics and Systems Pharmacology Approaches to Repurposing Drugs in the Wake of Global Health Burden.
Abstract: There are emergent needs for cost-effective treatment worldwide, for which repurposing to develop a drug with existing marketing approval of disease(s) for new disease(s) is a valid option. Although strategic mining of electronic health records has produced real-world evidences to inform drug repurposing, using omics data (drug and disease), knowledge base of protein interactions, and database of transcription factors have been explored. Structured integration of all the existing data under the framework of drug repurposing will facilitate decision making. The ability to foresee the need to integrate new data types produced by emergent technologies and to enable data connectivity in the context of human biology and targeted diseases, as well as to use the existing crucial quality data of all approved drugs will catapult the number of drugs being successfully repurposed. However, translational pharmacodynamics databases for modeling information across human biology in the context of host factors are lacking and are critically needed for drug repurposing to improve global public health, especially for the efforts to combat neglected tropic diseases as well as emergent infectious diseases such as Zika or Ebola virus.
Label Included: 0

Title: Models of reablement evaluation (MoRE): a study protocol of a quasi-experimental mixed methods evaluation of reablement services in England.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Reablement is a time-limited intervention that aims to support people to regain independence and enable them to resume their daily activities after they return home from an in-patient care setting, or to maintain independence to enable them to remain at home. There is some evidence that reablement can enhance independence and has the potential to contain costs. However, reablement services are funded and provided in different ways and by different organisations, and there is limited research evidence about the effectiveness of different reablement service models. This study will evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of different reablement service models and service users' and carers' experiences of reablement in England, UK.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study will use a quasi-experimental mixed methods design that comprises three work packages (WP) extending over a period of 34 months. WP1 will conduct cluster analysis on survey data to develop a typology of current models of reablement services in order to describe the current reablement service landscape. WP2 will comprise a quantitative outcomes evaluation of the effectiveness of the different service models; a process evaluation and an economic evaluation. WP2 will be set within generic reablement services, where providers are using the most commonly employed generic reablement service types identified in WP1; the primary outcome measure is health-related quality of life measured by the EQ-5D-5L. WP3 will provide evidence about specialist reablement services and how specialist approaches and practices are organised and delivered.
DISCUSSION: Managing demands on care services is, and will remain, a crucial factor for the UK National Health Service as the number of people with long-term conditions rise. There has been, and will continue to be, significant investment in reablement services. The proposed study will address several key areas where there is limited evidence regarding the organisation and delivery of reablement services in England, UK. Specifically, it will provide new evidence on different models of reablement services that will be of direct benefit to health and social care managers, commissioners and their partner organisations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile clinics for women's and children's health.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The accessibility of health services is an important factor that affects the health outcomes of populations. A mobile clinic provides a wide range of services but in most countries the main focus is on health services for women and children. It is anticipated that improvement of the accessibility of health services via mobile clinics will improve women's and children's health.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the impact of mobile clinic services on women's and children's health.
SEARCH METHODS: For related systematic reviews, we searched the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effectiveness (DARE), CRD; Health Technology Assessment Database (HTA), CRD; NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED), CRD (searched 20 February 2014).For primary studies, we searched ISI Web of Science, for studies that have cited the included studies in this review (searched 18 January 2016); WHO ICTRP, and ClinicalTrials.gov (searched 23 May 2016); Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), part of The Cochrane Library. www.cochranelibrary.com (including the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care (EPOC) Group Specialised Register) (searched 7 April 2015); MEDLINE, OvidSP (searched 7 April 2015); Embase, OvidSP (searched 7 April 2015); CINAHL, EbscoHost (searched 7 April 2015); Global Health, OvidSP (searched 8 April 2015); POPLINE, K4Health (searched 8 April 2015); Science Citation Index and Social Sciences Citation Index, ISI Web of Science (searched 8 April 2015); Global Health Library, WHO (searched 8 April 2015); PAHO, VHL (searched 8 April 2015); WHOLIS, WHO (searched 8 April 2015); LILACS, VHL (searched 9 April 2015).
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included individual- and cluster-randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and non-RCTs. We included controlled before-and-after (CBA) studies provided they had at least two intervention sites and two control sites. Also, we included interrupted time series (ITS) studies if there was a clearly defined point in time when the intervention occurred and at least three data points before and three after the intervention. We defined the intervention of a mobile clinic as a clinic vehicle with a healthcare provider (with or without a nurse) and a driver that visited areas on a regular basis. The participants were women (18 years or older) and children (under the age of 18 years) in low-, middle-, and high-income countries.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently screened the titles and abstracts of studies identified by the search strategy, extracted data from the included studies using a specially-designed data extraction form based on the Cochrane EPOC Group data collection checklist, and assessed full-text articles for eligibility. All authors performed analyses, 'Risk of bias' assessments, and assessed the quality of the evidence using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach.
MAIN RESULTS: Two cluster-RCTs met the inclusion criteria of this review. Both studies were conducted in the USA.One study tested whether offering onsite mobile mammography combined with health education was more effective at increasing breast cancer screening rates than offering health education only, including reminders to attend a static clinic for mammography. Women in the group offered mobile mammography and health education may be more likely to undergo mammography within three months of the intervention than those in the comparison group (55% versus 40%; odds ratio (OR) 1.83, 95% CI 1.22 to 2.74; low certainty evidence).A cost-effectiveness analysis of mammography at mobile versus static units found that the total cost per patient screened may be higher for mobile units than for static units. The incremental costs per patient screened for a mobile over a stationary unit were USD 61 and USD 45 for a mobile full digital unit and a mobile film unit respectively.The second study compared asthma outcomes for children aged two to six years who received asthma care from a mobile asthma clinic and children who received standard asthma care from the usual (static) primary provider. Children who receive asthma care from a mobile asthma clinic may experience little or no difference in symptom-free days, urgent care use and caregiver-reported medication use compared to children who receive care from their usual primary care provider. All of the evidence was of low certainty.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The paucity of evidence and the restricted range of contexts from which evidence is available make it difficult to draw conclusions on the impacts of mobile clinics on women's and children's health compared to static clinics. Further rigorous studies are needed in low-, middle-, and high-income countries to evaluate the impacts of mobile clinics on women's and children's health.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Systematic Review of the Economic Evaluation of Telemedicine in Japan.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: There is no systematic review on economic evaluations of telemedicine in Japan, despite over 1000 trials implemented. Our systematic review aims to examine whether Japan's telemedicine is cost-saving or cost-effective, examine the methodological rigorousness of the economic evaluations, and discuss future studies needed to improve telemedicine's financial sustainability.
METHODS: We searched five databases, including two Japanese databases, to find peer-reviewed articles published between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2014 in English and Japanese that performed economic evaluations of Japan's telemedicine programs. The methodological rigorousness of the economic analyses was assessed with a well-established checklist. We calculated the benefit-to-cost ratio (BCR) when a reviewed study reported related data but did not report the BCR. All cost values were adjusted to 2014 US dollars.
RESULTS: Among the 17 articles identified, six studies reported on settings connecting physicians for specialist consultations, and eleven studies on settings connecting healthcare providers and patients at home. There are three cost-benefit analyses and three cost-minimization analyses. The remaining studies measured the benefit of telemedicine only, using medical expenditure saved or users' willingness-to-pay. There was substantial diversity in the methodological rigorousness. Studies on teledermatology and teleradiology indicated a favorable level of economic efficiency. Studies on telehomecare gave mixed results. One cost-benefit analysis on telehomecare indicated a low economic efficiency, partly due to public subsidy rules, e.g., a too short budget period.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, telemedicine programs in Japan were indicated to have a favorable level of economic efficiency. However, the scarcity of the economic literature indicates the need for further rigorous economic evaluation studies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Rapid cross platform healthcare gaming design and implementation: The cost effective methodology.
Abstract: There have been massive advances in E-Health and M-Health technology, with recent interest in the utility of games for healthcare and the promotion of well-being and recovery as well as patient empowerment. There has been various review demonstrating the clinical effectiveness and efficacy of games for healthcare. It is the aim of this technical note to illustrate how appropriate gaming engines could be used by non-expert clinicians to program games that could run across various platforms, as well as games that could integrate well with existing mechanical sensors. This would address the limitations with regards to the evidence base of games, as well as the limitations in the deployment of games to various participants. More importantly, games designed are also more likely to be cost-effective and lower in cost. The ability of integration with existing mechanical sensors would value-add existing games and enable recovery and remediation in various domains of health. This would further expand the potential of games as an adjunctive treatment for patients, or at least, to maintain the gains that they have made in their recovery process.
Label Included: 0

Title: Un/Paid Labor: Medicaid Home and Community Based Services Waivers That Pay Family as Personal Care Providers.
Abstract: The United States long-term services and supports system is built on largely unpaid (informal) labor. There are a number of benefits to allowing family caregivers to serve as paid personal care providers including better health and satisfaction outcomes, expanded workforces, and cost effectiveness. The purpose of this study was to examine how Medicaid HCBS Section 1915(c) waivers for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities allocate personal care services to pay family caregivers. Our analysis revealed about two thirds of waivers in fiscal year (FY) 2014 allowed for family caregivers to potentially be paid for personal care services. This amounted to up to $2.71 billion of projected spending, which is slightly more than half of all personal care service expenditures in FY 2014.
Label Included: 0

Title: Electronically delivered, multicomponent intervention to reduce unnecessary antibiotic prescribing for respiratory infections in primary care: a cluster randomised trial using electronic health records-REDUCE Trial study original protocol.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Respiratory tract infections (RTIs) account for about 60% of antibiotics prescribed in primary care. This study aims to test the effectiveness, in a cluster randomised controlled trial, of electronically delivered, multicomponent interventions to reduce unnecessary antibiotic prescribing when patients consult for RTIs in primary care. The research will specifically evaluate the effectiveness of feeding back electronic health records (EHRs) data to general practices.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: 2-arm cluster randomised trial using the EHRs of the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). General practices in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are being recruited and the general population of all ages represents the target population. Control trial arm practices will continue with usual care. Practices in the intervention arm will receive complex multicomponent interventions, delivered remotely to information systems, including (1) feedback of each practice's antibiotic prescribing through monthly antibiotic prescribing reports estimated from CPRD data; (2) delivery of educational and decision support tools; (3) a webinar to explain and promote effective usage of the intervention. The intervention will continue for 12 months. Outcomes will be evaluated from CPRD EHRs. The primary outcome will be the number of antibiotic prescriptions for RTIs per 1000 patient years. Secondary outcomes will be: the RTI consultation rate; the proportion of consultations for RTI with an antibiotic prescribed; subgroups of age; different categories of RTI and quartiles of intervention usage. There will be more than 80% power to detect an absolute reduction in antibiotic prescription for RTI of 12 per 1000 registered patient years. Total healthcare usage will be estimated from CPRD data and compared between trial arms.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Trial protocol was approved by the National Research Ethics Service Committee (14/LO/1730). The pragmatic design of the trial will enable subsequent translation of effective interventions at scale in order to achieve population impact.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN95232781; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost of diabetic retinopathy and macular oedema in a population, an eight year follow up.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Prospective, population-based study of an 8-year follow up. To determine the direct cost of diabetic retinopathy [DR], evaluating our screening programme and the cost of treating DR, focusing on diabetic macular oedema [DMO] after anti-vascular endothelial growth factor [anti-VEGF] treatment.
METHODS: A total of 15,396 diabetes mellitus [DM] patients were studied. We determined the cost-effectiveness of our screening programme against an annual programme by applying the Markov simulation model. We also compared the cost-effectiveness of anti-VEGF treatment to laser treatment for screened patients with DMO.
RESULTS: The cost of our 2.5-year screening programme was as follows: per patient with any-DR, €482.85 ± 35.14; per sight-threatening diabetic retinopathy [STDR] patient, €1528.26 ± 114.94; and €1826.98 ± 108.26 per DMO patient. Comparatively, an annual screening programme would result in increases as follows: 0.77 in QALY per patient with any-DR and 0.6 and 0.44 per patient with STDR or DMO, respectively, with an incremental cost-effective ratio [ICER] of €1096.88 for any-DR, €4571.2 for STDR and €7443.28 per DMO patient. Regarding diagnosis and treatment, the mean annual total cost per patient with DMO was €777.09 ± 49.45 for the laser treated group and €7153.62 ± 212.15 for the anti-VEGF group, with a QALY gain of 0.21, the yearly mean cost was €7153.62 ± 212.15 per patient, and the ICER was €30,361.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for diabetic retinopathy every 2.5 years is cost-effective, but should be adjusted to a patient's personal risk factors. Treatment with anti-VEGF for DMO has increased costs, but the cost-utility increases to 0.21 QALY per patient.
Label Included: 0

Title: [In process].
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Utility Analysis of Telemonitoring Interventions for Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) in Germany.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) poses major challenges for health care systems. Previous studies suggest that telemonitoring could be effective in preventing hospitalisations and hence reduce costs.
OBJECTIVE: The aim was to evaluate whether telemonitoring interventions for COPD are cost-effective from the perspective of German statutory sickness funds.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was conducted using a combination of a Markov model and a decision tree. Telemonitoring as add-on to standard treatment was compared with standard treatment alone. The model consisted of four transition stages to account for COPD severity, and a terminal stage for death. Within each cycle, the frequency of exacerbations as well as outcomes for 2015 costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) for each stage were calculated. Values for input parameters were taken from the literature. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: In the base case, telemonitoring led to an increase in incremental costs (€866 per patient) but also in incremental QALYs (0.05 per patient). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was thus €17,410 per QALY gained. A deterministic sensitivity analysis showed that hospitalisation rate and costs for telemonitoring equipment greatly affected results. The probabilistic ICER averaged €34,432 per QALY (95 % confidence interval 12,161-56,703).
CONCLUSION: We provide evidence that telemonitoring may be cost-effective in Germany from a payer's point of view. This holds even after deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
Label Included: 0

Title: An internet-based intervention with brief nurse support to manage obesity in primary care (POWeR+): a pragmatic, parallel-group, randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The obesity epidemic has major public health consequences. Expert dietetic and behavioural counselling with intensive follow-up is effective, but resource requirements severely restrict widespread implementation in primary care, where most patients are managed. We aimed to estimate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an internet-based behavioural intervention (POWeR+) combined with brief practice nurse support in primary care.
METHODS: We did this pragmatic, parallel-group, randomised controlled trial at 56 primary care practices in central and south England. Eligible adults aged 18 years or older with a BMI of 30 kg/m(2) or more (or ≥28 kg/m(2) with hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, or diabetes) registered online with POWeR+-a 24 session, web-based, weight management intervention lasting 6 months. After registration, the website automatically randomly assigned patients (1:1:1), via computer-generated random numbers, to receive evidence-based dietetic advice to swap foods for similar, but healthier, choices and increase fruit and vegetable intake, in addition to 6 monthly nurse follow-up (control group); web-based intervention and face-to-face nurse support (POWeR+Face-to-face [POWeR+F]; up to seven nurse contacts over 6 months); or web-based intervention and remote nurse support (POWeR+Remote [POWeR+R]; up to five emails or brief phone calls over 6 months). Participants and investigators were masked to group allocation at the point of randomisation; masking of participants was not possible after randomisation. The primary outcome was weight loss averaged over 12 months. We did a secondary analysis of weight to measure maintenance of 5% weight loss at months 6 and 12. We modelled the cost-effectiveness of each intervention. We did analysis by intention to treat, with multiple imputation for missing data. This trial is registered as an International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial, number ISRCTN21244703.
FINDINGS: Between Jan 30, 2013, and March 20, 2014, 818 participants were randomly assigned to the control group (n=279), the POWeR+F group (n=269), or the POWeR+R group (n=270). Weight loss averaged over 12 months was recorded in 666 (81%) participants. The control group lost almost 3 kg over 12 months (crude mean weight: baseline 104·38 kg [SD 21·11; n=279], 6 months 101·91 kg [19·35; n=136], 12 months 101·74 kg [19·57; n=227]). The primary imputed analysis showed that compared with the control group, patients in the POWeR+F group achieved an additional weight reduction of 1·5 kg (95% CI 0·6-2·4; p=0·001) averaged over 12 months, and patients in the POWeR+R group achieved an additional 1·3 kg (0·34-2·2; p=0·007). 21% of patients in the control group had maintained a clinically important 5% weight reduction at month 12, compared with 29% of patients in the POWeR+F group (risk ratio 1·56, 0·96-2·51; p=0·070) and 32% of patients in the POWeR+R group (1·82, 1·31-2·74; p=0·004). The incremental overall cost to the health service per kg weight lost with the POWeR+ interventions versus the control strategy was £18 (95% CI -129 to 195) for POWeR+F and -£25 (-268 to 157) for POWeR+R; the probability of being cost-effective at a threshold of £100 per kg lost was 88% and 98%, respectively. No adverse events were reported.
INTERPRETATION: Weight loss can be maintained in some individuals by use of novel written material with occasional brief nurse follow-up. However, more people can maintain clinically important weight reductions with a web-based behavioural program and brief remote follow-up, with no increase in health service costs. Future research should assess the extent to which clinically important weight loss can be maintained beyond 1 year.
FUNDING: Health Technology Assessment Programme of the National Institute for Health Research.
Label Included: 0

Title: DETERMINANTS OF THE INTENTION TO USE TELEMEDICINE: EVIDENCE FROM PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIANS.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: While most studies have focused on analyzing the results of telemedicine use, it is crucial to consider the determinants of its use to fully understand the issue. This article aims to provide evidence on the determinants of telemedicine use in clinical practice.
METHODS: The survey targeted a total population of 398 medical professionals from a healthcare institution in Spain. The study sample was formed by the ninety-three primary care physicians who responded. Using an extended Technology Acceptance Model and microdata for the ninety-six physicians, binary logistic regression analysis was carried out.
RESULTS: The analysis performed confirmed the model's goodness-of-fit, which allowed 48.1 percent of the dependent variable's variance to be explained. The outcomes revealed that the physicians at the healthcare institution placed greater importance on telemedicine's potential to reduce costs, and on its usefulness to the medical profession. The perception of medical information security and confidentiality and the patients' predisposition toward telemedicine were the second explanatory factors in order of importance. A third set of moderating effects would appear to corroborate the importance of the physicians' own opinions.
CONCLUSIONS: These results have revealed the need for a dynamic approach to the design of telemedicine use, especially when it targets a variety of end-users. Hence, the importance of conducting studies before using telemedicine, and attempting to identify which of the above-mentioned predictors exert an influence and how.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of foot orthoses for people with established rheumatoid arthritis: an exploratory clinical trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Foot orthoses are commonly prescribed as an intervention for people with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Data relating to the cost-effectiveness of foot orthoses in people with RA are limited. The aim was to evaluate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of two types of foot orthoses in people with established RA.
METHOD: A single-blind randomized controlled trial was undertaken to compare custom-made foot orthoses (CMFOs) and simple insoles (SIs) in 41 people with established RA. The Foot Function Index (FFI) was used to measure foot pain, disability, and functional limitation. Costs were estimated from the perspective of the UK National Health Service (NHS), societal (patient and family) perspective, and secondary care resource use in terms of the intervention and staff time. Effects were assessed in terms of health gain expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: At baseline, 20 participants received a CMFO and 21 participants received an SI. After 16 weeks foot pain improved in both the CMFOs (p = 0.000) and the SIs (p < 0.01). However, disability scores improved for CMFOs (p < 0.001) but not for SIs (p = 0.40). The cost-effectiveness results demonstrated no difference in cost between the arms (CMFOs: £159.10; SIs: £79.10; p = 0.35), with the CMFOs being less effective in terms of cost per QALY gain (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In people with established RA, semi-rigid customized foot orthoses can improve pain and disability scores in comparison to simple insoles. From a cost-effectiveness perspective, the customized foot orthoses were far more expensive to manufacture, with no significant cost per QALY gain.
Label Included: 0

Title: A small-scale randomised controlled trial of home telemonitoring in patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Abstract: Introduction This was a pilot study to examine the effects of home telemonitoring (TM) of patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Methods A randomised controlled 12-month trial of 42 patients with severe COPD was conducted. Home TM of oximetry, temperature, pulse, electrocardiogram, blood pressure, spirometry, and weight with telephone support and home visits was tested against a control group receiving only identical telephone support and home visits. Results The results suggest that TM had a reduction in COPD-related admissions, emergency department presentations, and hospital bed days. TM also seemed to increase the interval between COPD-related exacerbations requiring a hospital visit and prolonged the time to the first admission. The interval between hospital visits was significantly different between the study arms, while the other findings did not reach significance and only suggest a trend. There was a reduction in hospital admission costs. TM was adopted well by most patients and eventually, also by the nursing staff, though it did not seem to change patients' psychological well-being. Discussion Ability to draw firm conclusions is limited due to the small sample size. However the trends of reducing hospital visits warrant a larger study of a similar design. When designing such a trial, one should consider the potential impact of the high quality of care already made available to this patient cohort.
Label Included: 0

Title: Use of Chronic Disease Registries to Optimize Cardiovascular Health.
Abstract: Cardiovascular disease remains a significant cause of mortality and morbidity despite relentless ongoing research all over the world. The different cardiovascular societies and research organizations are in a constant effort to improve overall cardiovascular (CV) outcome by conducting trials and establishment of guidelines. The ever growing health care costs have enforced governmental agencies to develop quality performance measures which are addressed towards increasing quality, safety, efficiency of patient care and to curtail the cost of health care. Clinical registries are observational databases which provide detailed information about patient population, a specific disease or a clinical condition, therapy or procedure. These can be utilized in estimating appropriateness of health care delivery and providing feedback to providers and health care organizations for gauging their performance at regional and national level. The introduction of electronic health records (EHR) has immensely helped the workflow and maintenance of clinical registries with their integrated software.
Label Included: 0

Title: Opportunity cost of the dermatologist's consulting time in the economic evaluation of teledermatology.
Abstract: Introduction This study, through a systematic review and meta-analysis, has sought to demonstrate that the opportunity cost is a value to take into account in studies of economic cost in telemedicine, illustrated through the time of the dermatologist's consultation in teledermatology and traditional consultation. Methods Economic evaluation studies have been identified that compare teledermatology and traditional dermatological consultation during the period 1998-2015. We carried out a meta-analysis considering the work cost and the dermatologist's consultation time, analysing their differences. The opportunity cost represented by these differences in the dermatological remote consultation time was subsequently calculated based on the design of a cost/time variable. Results It was not possible to meta-analyse the cost of the dermatologist's consultation due to insufficient standardized complete data. It was possible to carry out a meta-analysis of the consultation time, and three articles were selected (2945 patients). Teledermatology accounts for more time (7.54 min) than conventional consultation ( p < 0.00001) and this difference is an opportunity cost of teledermatology of €29.25 per each remote consultation, with a unitary factor cost/time of 3.88€/minute. Conclusions There is no unanimity in the literature regarding which of the two procedures is cheaper; further studies with the necessary standardized variables are required. In this meta-analysis, teledermatology takes more time than a conventional dermatology consultation, which leads to an opportunity cost, increasing the total cost of consultation. The opportunity cost is a value that should be included in an analysis of economic costs, in the context of an economic assessment, when we evaluate a health activity.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-utility of an internet-based intervention with or without therapist support in comparison with a waiting list for individuals with eating disorder symptoms: a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost-utility of the internet-based intervention "Featback" provided with different levels of therapist support, in comparison to a waiting list.
METHOD: This economic evaluation was conducted from a societal perspective and was part of a randomized controlled trial in which participants (N = 354) with self-reported ED symptoms were randomized to: (1) 8 weeks of Featback, consisting of psychoeducation and a fully automated monitoring- and feedback system, (2) Featback with low-intensity (weekly) therapist support, (3) Featback with high-intensity (three times a week) therapist support, and (4) a waiting list. Participants were assessed at baseline, postintervention, and 3-month follow-up. Cost-utility acceptability curves were constructed.
RESULTS: No significant differences between the study conditions were found regarding quality-adjusted life-years (P = 0.55) and societal costs (P = 0.45), although the mean costs per participant were lowest in the Featback condition with low-intensity therapist support (€1951), followed by Featback with high-intensity therapist support (€2032), Featback without therapist support (€2102), and the waiting list (€2582). Featback seemed to be cost-effective as compared to the waiting list. No clear preference was found for Featback with or without therapist support.
DISCUSSION: A fully automated Internet-based intervention for ED symptoms with no, low-, or high-intensity therapist support represented good value for money when compared to a waiting list. This finding may have important implications for clinical practice, as both the unguided- and guided intervention could allow for more efficient care and widespread dissemination, potentially increasing the accessibility and availability of mental health care services for individuals with ED symptoms. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. (Int J Eat Disord 2016; 49:1068-1076).
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparing applets and oranges: barriers to evidence-based practice for app-based psychological interventions.
Abstract: Poor-quality pharmaceuticals and medical devices rarely make it to market; however, the same cannot be said for app-based interventions. With a high availability but low evidence base for mHealth, apps are an increasingly uncertain prospect to users and healthcare professionals alike. Although in a first-best situation, the burden of proof concerning app safety, clinical and cost-effectiveness 'should' ultimately lie with app developers; a number of barriers to evidence generation, including the fact that 'acceptable evidence' itself is largely open to interpretation, mean that it may be folly to expect this paucity of real-world effectiveness research to improve. While the health technology assessment of established therapeutic modalities including pharmaceuticals and talking therapies benefits from the existence of approved evaluative guidelines, unfortunately the same cannot be said for app-based interventions, specifically with regard to outcomes measurement. As such, it would seem that in order to prevent the comparative assessment of apps simply becoming an exercise comparing apples and oranges, there is a clear need for consensus and guidance for app developers, as to which patient-reported outcome measures, among the hundreds available, are of clinical use to those making decisions, and should therefore be used when developing app-based interventions. By negating the fear that any evidence collected may be of poor quality, we can reincentivise developers to engage in evidence generation, and in doing so, maximise the likelihood of evidence-based decision-making taking a firm hold. However, only by dispelling the ambiguity around what acceptable evidence can and should look like, can we begin to do so.
Label Included: 0

Title: Human trafficking and severe mental illness: an economic analysis of survivors' use of psychiatric services.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Previous studies have found a high prevalence of depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) among survivors of human trafficking. European countries are required to assist trafficked people in their psychological recovery, but there are no rigorous data on the costs of doing so. The objectives of this study were to quantify the use of secondary mental health services by survivors of human trafficking; to estimate the cost of survivors' use of secondary mental health services provided by the UK National Health Service (NHS); and to identify factors that predict higher costs of mental health service provision.
METHODS: Historical cohort study of psychiatric patients who had experienced human trafficking. The South London and Maudsley NHS Trust (SLaM) Biomedical Research Centre Case Register Interactive Search (CRIS) database was used to identify anonymised full patient records of patients who had experienced human trafficking and who had accessed SLaM mental health services between 2007 and 2012. Data were extracted on socio-demographic and trafficking characteristics and contacts with mental health services. Total costs were calculated by multiplying each resource use item by an appropriate unit cost. Factors that predicted high mental health service costs were analysed using regression models.
RESULTS: One hundred nineteen patients were included in the analysis. Mean total mental health service costs per patient were £27,293 (sd 80,985) and mean duration of contact with services was 1490 (sd 757) days (approximately 4 years). Regression analysis showed that higher costs were associated with diagnosis of psychotic disorder (p < 0.001) and experiences of pre-trafficking violence (p = 0.06). Patients diagnosed with psychotic disorders cost approximately £32,635 more than patients with non-psychotic disorders/psychological distress but no formal diagnosis and patients whose clinical notes documented pre-trafficking violence cost £88,633 more than patients for whom pre-trafficking violence was not documented.
CONCLUSIONS: Trafficked patients' use of mental health services - and the cost of providing care - is highly variable, but patients with psychotic disorders and with experiences of pre-trafficking violence are likely to require more intensive support. Evidence is needed on the effectiveness of interventions to promote the recovery of survivors of human trafficking.
Label Included: 0

Title: Web-based self-help intervention reduces alcohol consumption in both heavy-drinking and dependent alcohol users: A pilot study.
Abstract: As part of a multicenter project supported by the World Health Organization, we developed a web-based intervention to reduce alcohol use and related problems. We evaluated the predictors of adherence to, and the outcomes of the intervention. Success was defined as a reduction in consumption to low risk levels or to <50% of the baseline levels of number of drinks. From the 32,401 people who accessed the site, 3389 registered and 929 completed the full Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT), a necessary condition to be considered eligible to take part in the intervention. Based on their AUDIT scores, these participants were classified into: low risk users (LRU; n=319) harmful/hazardous users (HHU; n=298) or suggestive of dependence users (SDU; n=312). 29.1% of the registered users (LRU=42; HHU=90; SDU=82) completed the evaluation form at the end of the six-week period, and 63.5% reported low-risk drinking levels. We observed a significant reduction in alcohol consumption in the HHU (62.5%) and SDU (64.5%) groups in relation to baseline. One month after the intervention, in the follow-up, 94 users filled out the evaluation form, and their rate of success was similar to the one observed in the previous evaluation. Logistic regression analyses indicated that HHU participants presented higher adherence than LRU. Despite a relatively low adherence to the program, its good outcomes and low cost, as well as the high number of people that can be reached by a web-based intervention, suggest it has good cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses of hospital-based home care compared to hospital-based care for children diagnosed with type 1 diabetes; a randomised controlled trial; results after two years' follow-up.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Practices regarding hospitalisation of children at diagnosis of type 1 diabetes vary both within countries and internationally, and high-quality evidence of best practice is scarce. The objective of this study was to close some of the gaps in evidence by comparing two alternative regimens for children diagnosed with type 1 diabetes: hospital-based care and hospital-based home care (HBHC), referring to specialist care in a home-based setting.
METHODS: A randomised controlled trial, including 60 children aged 3-15 years, took place at a university hospital in Sweden. When the children were medically stable, they were randomised to either the traditional, hospital-based care or to HBHC.
RESULTS: Two years after diagnosis there were no differences in HbA1c (p = 0.777), in episodes of severe hypoglycaemia (p = 0.167), or in insulin U/kg/24 h (p = 0.269). Over 24 months, there were no statistically significant differences between groups in how parents' reported the impact of paediatric chronic health condition on family (p = 0.138) or in parents' self-reported health-related quality of life (p = 0.067). However, there was a statistically significant difference regarding healthcare satisfaction, favouring HBHC (p = 0.002). In total, healthcare costs (direct costs) were significantly lower in the HBHC group but no statistically significant difference between the two groups in estimated lost production (indirect costs) for the family as a whole. Whereas mothers had a significantly lower value of lost production, when their children were treated within the HBHC regime, fathers had a higher, but not a significantly higher value. The results indicate that HBHC might be a cost-effective strategy in a healthcare sector perspective. When using the wider societal perspective, no difference in cost effectiveness or cost utility was found.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, there are only a few, well-designed and controlled studies that compare hospital care to different models of home care. The results of this study provide empirical support for the safety and feasibility of HBHC when a child is diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. Our results further indicate that the model of care may have an impact on families' daily living, not only during the initial period of care but for a longer period of time.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov with identity number NCT00804232 , December 2008.
Label Included: 0

Title: An international randomized study of a home-based self-management program for severe COPD: the COMET.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Most hospitalizations and costs related to COPD are due to exacerbations and insufficient disease management. The COPD patient Management European Trial (COMET) is investigating a home-based multicomponent COPD self-management program designed to reduce exacerbations and hospital admissions.
DESIGN: Multicenter parallel randomized controlled, open-label superiority trial.
SETTING: Thirty-three hospitals in four European countries.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 345 patients with Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease III/IV COPD.
INTERVENTION: The program includes extensive patient coaching by health care professionals to improve self-management (eg, develop skills to better manage their disease), an e-health platform for reporting frequent health status updates, rapid intervention when necessary, and oxygen therapy monitoring. Comparator is the usual management as per the center's routine practice.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Yearly number of hospital days for acute care, exacerbation number, quality of life, deaths, and costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Radiography on wheels arrives to nursing homes - an economic assessment of a new health care technology in southern Sweden.
Abstract: RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: The process of transferring older, vulnerable adults from an elder care facility to the hospital for medical care can be an emotionally and physically stressful experience. The recent development of modern mobile radiography may help to ease this anxiety by allowing for evaluation in the nursing home itself. Up until this point, no health economic evaluation of the technology has been attempted in a Swedish setting. The objective of this study was to determine whether examinations of patients in elder care facilities with mobile radiography were cost-effective from a societal perspective compared with hospital-based radiological examinations.
METHODS: This prospective study included two groups of nursing home residents in two different areas in southern Sweden. All residents in the nursing homes were targeted for the study. Seventy-one patients were examined with hospital-based radiography at two hospitals, and 312 patients were examined using mobile radiography in nursing homes. Given that the diagnostic effects are regarded as equivalent, a cost minimization method was applied. Direct costs were estimated using prices from the county council, Region Skåne, Sweden.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective, mobile radiography was shown to have significantly lower costs per examination compared with hospital-based radiography. The difference in health care-related costs was also significant in favour of mobile radiography.
CONCLUSION: Mobile radiography can be used to examine patients in nursing homes at a lower cost than hospital-based radiography. Patients benefit from not having to transfer to a hospital for radiography, resulting in reduced anxiety for patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Is the Juice Worth the Squeeze? Costs and Benefits of Multiple Human Annotators for Clinical Text De-identification.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Clinical text contains valuable information but must be de-identified before it can be used for secondary purposes. Accurate annotation of personally identifiable information (PII) is essential to the development of automated de-identification systems and to manual redaction of PII. Yet the accuracy of annotations may vary considerably across individual annotators and annotation is costly. As such, the marginal benefit of incorporating additional annotators has not been well characterized.
OBJECTIVES: This study models the costs and benefits of incorporating increasing numbers of independent human annotators to identify the instances of PII in a corpus. We used a corpus with gold standard annotations to evaluate the performance of teams of annotators of increasing size.
METHODS: Four annotators independently identified PII in a 100-document corpus consisting of randomly selected clinical notes from Family Practice clinics in a large integrated health care system. These annotations were pooled and validated to generate a gold standard corpus for evaluation.
RESULTS: Recall rates for all PII types ranged from 0.90 to 0.98 for individual annotators to 0.998 to 1.0 for teams of three, when meas-ured against the gold standard. Median cost per PII instance discovered during corpus annotation ranged from $ 0.71 for an individual annotator to $ 377 for annotations discovered only by a fourth annotator.
CONCLUSIONS: Incorporating a second annotator into a PII annotation process reduces unredacted PII and improves the quality of annotations to 0.99 recall, yielding clear benefit at reasonable cost; the cost advantages of annotation teams larger than two diminish rapidly.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effect of an interactive weekly mobile phone messaging on retention in prevention of mother to child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV program: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial (WELTEL PMTCT).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Improving retention in prevention of mother to child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV programs is critical to optimize maternal and infant health outcomes, especially now that lifelong treatment is immediate regardless of CD4 cell count). The WelTel strategy of using weekly short message service (SMS) to engage patients in care in Kenya, where mobile coverage even in poor areas is widespread has been shown to improve adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) and viral load suppression among those on ART. The aim of this study is to determine the effect of the WelTel SMS intervention compared to standard care on retention in PMTCT program in Kenya.
METHODS: WelTel PMTCT is a four to seven-centers, two-arm open randomized controlled trial (RCT) that will be conducted in urban and rural Kenya. Over 36 months, we plan to recruit 600 pregnant women at their first antenatal care visit and follow the mother-infant pair until they are discharged from the PMTCT program (when infant is aged 24 months). Participants will be randomly allocated to the intervention or control arm (standard care) at a 1:1 ratio. Intervention arm participants will receive an interactive weekly SMS 'How are you?' to which they are supposed to respond within 24 h. Depending on the response (ok, problem or no answer), a PMTCT nurse will follow-up and triage any problems that are identified. The primary outcome will be retention in care defined as the proportion of mother-infant pairs coming for infant HIV testing at 24 months from delivery. Secondary outcomes include a) adherence to WelTel; (b) adherence to antiretroviral medicine; (c) acceptance of WelTel and (d) cost-effectiveness of the WelTel intervention.
DISCUSSION: This trial will provide evidence on the effectiveness of mHealth for PMTCT retention. Trial results and the cost-effectiveness evaluation will be used to inform policy and potential scale-up of mHealth among mothers living with HIV.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN98818734 ; registered on 9th December 2014.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs and economic consequences of a help-at-home scheme for older people in England.
Abstract: Solutions to support older people to live independently and reduce the cost of an ageing population are high on the political agenda of most developed countries. Help-at-home schemes offer a mix of community support with the aim to address a range of well-being needs. However, not much is currently known about the costs, outcomes and economic consequences of such schemes. Understanding their impact on individuals' well-being and the economic consequences for local and central government can contribute to decisions about sustainable long-term care financing. This article presents results from a mixed-methods study of a voluntary sector-provided help-at-home scheme in England for people of 55 years and older. The study followed a participatory approach, which involved staff and volunteers. Data were collected during 2012 and 2013. Social care-related quality of life was measured with the Adult Social Care Outcomes Toolkit for 24 service users (59% response rate) when they started using the scheme and 4-6 months later. A customised questionnaire that captured resource use and well-being information was sent to 1064 service users (63% response rate). The same tool was used in assessment with service users who started using the scheme between November 2012 and April 2013 (100% response rate). Costs of the scheme were established from local budget and activity data. The scheme was likely to achieve a mean net benefit of £1568 per person from a local government and National Health Service (NHS) perspective and £3766 from the perspective of the individual. An expenditure of £2851 per person accrued to central government for the additional redistribution of benefit payments to older people. This article highlights the potential contribution of voluntary sector-run help-at-home schemes to an affordable welfare system for ageing societies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Translation of the Care of Persons with Dementia in their Environments (COPE) intervention in a publicly-funded home care context: Rationale and research design.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Dementia is the leading cause of loss of independence in older adults worldwide. In the U.S., approximately 15 million family members provide care to relatives with dementia. This paper presents the rationale and design for a translational study in which an evidence-based, non-pharmacologic intervention for older adults with dementia and family caregivers (CGs) is incorporated into a publicly-funded home care program for older adults at risk for nursing home admission.
METHODS: The 4-month Care of Persons with Dementia in their Environments (COPE) intervention is designed to optimize older adults' functional independence, and to improve CG dementia management skills and health-related outcomes. COPE features 10 in-home occupational therapy visits, and 1 in-home visit and 1 telephone contact by an advanced practice nurse. COPE was deemed efficacious in a published randomized clinical trial. In the present study, older adults with dementia enrolled in the Connecticut Home Care Program for Elders (CHCPE) and their CGs are randomly assigned to receive COPE plus their ongoing CHCPE services, or to continue receiving CHCPE services only.
OUTCOMES: The primary outcome for older adults with dementia is functional independence; secondary outcomes are activity engagement, quality of life, and prevention or alleviation of neuropsychiatric symptoms. CG outcomes include perceived well-being and confidence in using activities to manage dementia symptoms. Translational outcomes include net financial benefit of COPE, and feasibility and acceptability of COPE implementation into the CHCPE. COPE has the potential to improve health-related outcomes while saving Medicaid waiver and state revenue-funded home care program costs nationwide.
Label Included: 0

Title: Tele-monitoring of ventilator-dependent patients: a European Respiratory Society Statement.
Abstract: The estimated prevalence of ventilator-dependent individuals in Europe is 6.6 per 100 000 people. The increasing number and costs of these complex patients make present health organisations largely insufficient to face their needs. As a consequence, their burden lays mostly over families. The need to reduce healthcare costs and to increase safety has prompted the development of tele-monitoring for home ventilatory assistance.A European Respiratory Society Task Force produced a literature research based statement on commonly accepted clinical criteria for indications, follow-up, equipment, facilities, legal and economic issues of tele-monitoring of these patients.Many remote health monitoring systems are available, ensuring safety, feasibility, effectiveness, sustainability and flexibility to face different patients' needs. The legal problems associated with tele-monitoring are still controversial. National and European Union (EU) governments should develop guidelines and ethical, legal, regulatory, technical, administrative standards for remote medicine. The economic advantages, if any, of this new approach must be compared to a "gold standard" of home care that is very variable among different European countries and within each European country.Much more research is needed before considering tele-monitoring a real improvement in the management of these patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Safety of reduced antibiotic prescribing for self limiting respiratory tract infections in primary care: cohort study using electronic health records.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the incidence of pneumonia, peritonsillar abscess, mastoiditis, empyema, meningitis, intracranial abscess, and Lemierre's syndrome is higher in general practices that prescribe fewer antibiotics for self limiting respiratory tract infections (RTIs).
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: 610 UK general practices from the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink.
PARTICIPANTS: Registered patients with 45.5 million person years of follow-up from 2005 to 2014.
EXPOSURES: Standardised proportion of RTI consultations with antibiotics prescribed for each general practice, and rate of antibiotic prescriptions for RTIs per 1000 registered patients.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence of pneumonia, peritonsillar abscess, mastoiditis, empyema, meningitis, intracranial abscess, and Lemierre's syndrome, adjusting for age group, sex, region, deprivation fifth, RTI consultation rate, and general practice.
RESULTS: From 2005 to 2014 the proportion of RTI consultations with antibiotics prescribed decreased from 53.9% to 50.5% in men and from 54.5% to 51.5% in women. From 2005 to 2014, new episodes of meningitis, mastoiditis, and peritonsillar abscess decreased annually by 5.3%, 4.6%, and 1.0%, respectively, whereas new episodes of pneumonia increased by 0.4%. Age and sex standardised incidences for pneumonia and peritonsillar abscess were higher for practices in the lowest fourth of antibiotic prescribing compared with the highest fourth. The adjusted relative risk increases for a 10% reduction in antibiotic prescribing were 12.8% (95% confidence interval 7.8% to 17.5%, P<0.001) for pneumonia and 9.9% (5.6% to 14.0%, P<0.001) for peritonsillar abscess. If a general practice with an average list size of 7000 patients reduces the proportion of RTI consultations with antibiotics prescribed by 10%, then it might observe 1.1 (95% confidence interval 0.6 to 1.5) more cases of pneumonia each year and 0.9 (0.5 to 1.3) more cases of peritonsillar abscess each decade. Mastoiditis, empyema, meningitis, intracranial abscess, and Lemierre's syndrome were similar in frequency at low prescribing and high prescribing practices.
CONCLUSIONS: General practices that adopt a policy to reduce antibiotic prescribing for RTIs might expect a slight increase in the incidence of treatable pneumonia and peritonsillar abscess. No increase is likely in mastoiditis, empyema, bacterial meningitis, intracranial abscess, or Lemierre's syndrome. Even a substantial reduction in antibiotic prescribing was predicted to be associated with only a small increase in numbers of cases observed overall, but caution might be required in subgroups at higher risk of pneumonia.
Label Included: 0

Title: Changing HIV treatment eligibility under health system constraints in sub-Saharan Africa: investment needs, population health gains, and cost-effectiveness.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: We estimated the investment needs, population health gains, and cost-effectiveness of different policy options for scaling-up prevention and treatment of HIV in the 10 countries that currently comprise 80% of all people living with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa (Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe).
DESIGN: We adapted the established STDSIM model to capture the health system dynamics: demand-side and supply-side constraints in the delivery of antiretroviral treatment (ART).
METHODS: We compared different scenarios of supply-side (i.e. health system capacity) and demand-side (i.e. health seeking behavior) constraints, and determined the impact of changing guidelines to ART eligibility at any CD4 cell count within these constraints.
RESULTS: Continuing current scale-up would require US$178 billion by 2050. Changing guidelines to ART at any CD4 cell count is cost-effective under all constraints tested in the model, especially in demand-side constrained health systems because earlier initiation prevents loss-to-follow-up of patients not yet eligible. Changing guidelines under current demand-side constraints would avert 1.8 million infections at US$208 per life-year saved.
CONCLUSION: Treatment eligibility at any CD4 cell count would be cost-effective, even under health system constraints. Excessive loss-to-follow-up and mortality in patients not eligible for treatment can be avoided by changing guidelines in demand-side constrained systems. The financial obligation for sustaining the AIDS response in sub-Saharan Africa over the next 35 years is substantial and requires strong, long-term commitment of policy-makers and donors to continue to allocate substantial parts of their budgets.
Label Included: 0

Title: Adherence to Internet-Based Mobile-Supported Stress Management: A Pooled Analysis of Individual Participant Data From Three Randomized Controlled Trials.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Nonadherence to treatment is a prevalent issue in Internet interventions. Guidance from health care professionals has been found to increase treatment adherence rates in Internet interventions for a range of physical and mental disorders. Evaluating different guidance formats of varying intensity is important, particularly with respect to improvement of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. Identifying predictors of nonadherence allows for the opportunity to better adapt Internet interventions to the needs of participants especially at risk for discontinuing treatment.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to investigate the influence of different guidance formats (content-focused guidance, adherence-focused guidance, and administrative guidance) on adherence and to identify predictors of nonadherence in an Internet-based mobile-supported stress management intervention (ie, GET.ON Stress) for employees.
METHODS: The data from the groups who received the intervention were pooled from three randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated the efficacy of the same Internet-based mobile-supported stress management intervention (N=395). The RCTs only differed in terms of the guidance format (content-focused guidance vs waitlist control, adherence-focused guidance vs waitlist control, administrative guidance vs waitlist control). Adherence was defined by the number of completed treatment modules (0-7). An ANOVA was performed to compare the adherence rates from the different guidance formats. Multiple hierarchical linear regression analysis was conducted to evaluate predictors of nonadherence, which included gender, age, education, symptom-related factors, and hope for improvement.
RESULTS: In all, 70.5% (93/132) of the content-focused guidance sample, 68.9% (91/132) of the adherence-focused guidance sample, and 42.0% (55/131) of the participants in the administrative guidance sample completed all treatment modules. Guidance had a significant effect on treatment adherence (F2,392=11.64, P<.001; ω(2)=.05). Participants in the content-focused guidance (mean 5.70, SD 2.32) and adherence-focused guidance samples (mean 5.58, SD 2.33) completed significantly more modules than participants in the administrative guidance sample (mean 4.36, SD 2.78; t223=4.53, P<.001; r=.29). Content-focused guidance was not significantly associated with higher adherence compared to adherence-focused guidance (t262=0.42, P=.67; r=.03). The effect size of r=.03 (95% CI -0.09 to 0.15) did not pass the equivalence margin of r=.20 and the upper bound of the 95% CI lay below the predefined margin, indicating equivalence between adherence-focused guidance and content-focused guidance. Beyond the influence of guidance, none of the predictors significantly predicted nonadherence.
CONCLUSIONS: Guidance has been shown to be an influential factor in promoting adherence to an Internet-based mobile-supported stress management intervention. Adherence-focused guidance, which included email reminders and feedback on demand, was equivalent to content-focused guidance with regular feedback while requiring only approximately a quarter of the coaching resources. This could be a promising discovery in terms of cost-effectiveness. However, even after considering guidance, sociodemographic, and symptom-related characteristics, most interindividual differences in nonadherence remain unexplained.
CLINICAL TRIAL: DRKS00004749; http://drks-neu.uniklinik-freiburg.de/drks_web/navigate.do?navigationId=trial.HTML&TRIAL _ID=DRKS00004749 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6QiDk9Zn8); DRKS00005112; http://drks-neu.uniklinik-freiburg. de/drks_web/navigate.do?navigationId=trial.HTML&TRIAL_ID=DRKS00005112 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6QiDysvev); DRKS00005384; http://drks-neu.uniklinik-freiburg.de/ drks_web/navigate.do?navigationId=trial.HTML&TRIAL_ID=DRKS00005384 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6QiE0xcpE).
Label Included: 0

Title: Modeling the Cost-Effectiveness of Home-Based HIV Testing and Education (HOPE) for Pregnant Women and Their Male Partners in Nyanza Province, Kenya.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Women in sub-Saharan Africa face a 2-fold higher risk of HIV acquisition during pregnancy and postpartum and the majority do not know the HIV status of their male partner. Home-based couple HIV testing for pregnant women can reduce HIV transmission to women and infants while increasing antiretroviral therapy (ART) coverage in men. However, the cost-effectiveness of this program has not been evaluated.
METHODS: We modeled the health and economic impact of implementing a home-based partner education and HIV testing (HOPE) intervention for pregnant women and their male partners in a region of Western Kenya (formally Nyanza Province). We used data from the HOPE randomized clinical trial conducted in Kisumu, Kenya, to parameterize a mathematical model of HIV transmission. We conducted an in-country microcosting of the HOPE intervention (payer perspective) to estimate program costs as well as a lower cost scenario of task-shifting to community health workers.
RESULTS: The incremental cost of adding the HOPE intervention to standard antenatal care was $31-37 and $14-16 USD per couple tested with program and task-shifting costs, respectively. At 60% coverage of male partners, HOPE was projected to avert 6987 HIV infections and 2603 deaths in Nyanza province over 10 years with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $886 and $615 per disability-adjusted life year averted for the program and task-shifting scenario, respectively. ICERs were robust to changes in intervention coverage, effectiveness, and ART initiation and dropout rates.
CONCLUSIONS: The HOPE intervention can moderately decrease HIV-associated morbidity and mortality by increasing ART coverage in male partners of pregnant women. ICERs fall below Kenya's per capita gross domestic product ($1358) and are therefore considered cost-effective. Task-shifting to community health workers can increase intervention affordability and feasibility.
Label Included: 0

Title: Review of key telepsychiatry outcomes.
Abstract: AIM: To conduct a review of the telepsychiatry literature.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic search of the literature on telepsychiatry using the search terms, "telepsychiatry", "telemental health", "telecare", "telemedicine", "e-health", and "videoconferencing". To meet criteria for inclusion, studies had to: (1) be published in a peer-reviewed journal after the year 2000; (2) be written in English; (3) use videoconferencing technology for the provision of mental health assessment or treatment services; and (4) use an adequately-powered randomized controlled trial design in the case of treatment outcome studies. Out of 1976 studies identified by searches in PubMed (Medline database), Ovid medline, PsychInfo, Embase, and EBSCO PSYCH, 452 met inclusion criteria. Studies that met all inclusion criteria were organized into one of six categories: (1) satisfaction; (2) reliability; (3) treatment outcomes; (4) implementation outcomes; (5) cost effectiveness; and (6) and legal issues. All disagreements were resolved by reassessing study characteristics and discussion.
RESULTS: Overall, patients and providers are generally satisfied with telepsychiatry services. Providers, however, tend to express more concerns about the potentially adverse of effects of telepsychiatry on therapeutic rapport. Patients are less likely to endorse such concerns about impaired rapport with their provider. Although few studies appropriately employ non-inferiority designs, the evidence taken together suggests that telepsychiatry is comparable to face-to-face services in terms of reliability of clinical assessments and treatment outcomes. When non-inferiority designs were appropriately used, telepsychiatry performed as well as, if not better than face-to-face delivery of mental health services. Studies using both rudimentary and more sophisticated methods for evaluating cost-effectiveness indicate that telepsychiatry is not more expensive than face-to-face delivery of mental health services and that telepsychiatry is actually more cost-effective in the majority of studies reviewed. Notwithstanding legal concerns about loss of confidentiality and limited capacity to respond to psychiatric emergencies, we uncovered no published reports of these adverse events in the use of telepsychiatry.
CONCLUSION: A large evidence base supports telepsychiatry as a delivery method for mental health services. Future studies will inform optimal approaches to implementing and sustaining telepsychiatry services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility and Effectiveness of mHealth for Mobilizing Households for Indoor Residual Spraying to Prevent Malaria: A Case Study in Mali.
Abstract: Components of mHealth are increasingly being added to development interventions worldwide. A particular case of interest is in Mali where the U.S. President's Malaria Initiative (PMI) Africa Indoor Residual Spraying (AIRS) Project piloted a mobile mass-messaging service in Koulikoro District in August 2014 to determine whether voice and/or text messages received on cell phones could effectively replace door-to-door mobilization for an indoor residual spraying (IRS) campaign. To measure the pilot's effectiveness, we evaluated structure preparedness (all household and food items removed) in 3 pilot intervention villages compared with 3 villages prepared for spray through door-to-door mobilization that was modified by incorporating town hall meetings and radio spots. Structure preparedness was significantly lower in households mobilized through the mobile-messaging approach compared with the door-to-door approach (49% vs. 75%, respectively; P = .03). Spray coverage of targeted households also was significantly lower among the mobile-messaging villages than the door-to-door mobilization villages (86% vs. 96%, respectively; P = .02). The mobile-messaging approach, at US$8.62 per structure prepared, was both more costly and less effective than the door-to-door approach at US$1.08 per structure prepared. While literacy and familiarity with technology were major obstacles, it also became clear that by removing the face-to-face interactions between mobilizers and household residents, individuals were not as trusting or understanding of the mobilization messages. These residents felt it was easier to ignore a text or voice message than to ignore a mobilizer who could provide reassurances and preparation support. In addition, men often received the mobile messages, as they typically owned the mobile phones, while women-who were more likely to be at home at the time of spray-usually interacted with the door-to-door mobilizers. Future attempts at using mHealth approaches for similar IRS mobilization efforts in Mali should be done in a way that combines mHealth tools with more common human-based interventions, rather than as a stand-alone approach, and should be designed with a gender lens in mind. The choice of software used for mass messaging should also be considered to find a local option that is both less expensive and perhaps more attuned to the local context than a U.S.-based software solution.
Label Included: 0

Title: Rationale and Design of the Randomized Evaluation of Default Access to Palliative Services (REDAPS) Trial.
Abstract: The substantial nationwide investment in inpatient palliative care services stems from their great promise to improve patient-centered outcomes and reduce costs. However, robust experimental evidence of these benefits is lacking. The Randomized Evaluation of Default Access to Palliative Services (REDAPS) study is a pragmatic, stepped-wedge, cluster randomized trial designed to test the efficacy and costs of specialized palliative care consultative services for hospitalized patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, dementia, or end-stage renal disease, as well as the overall effectiveness of ordering such services by default. Additional aims are to identify the types of services that are most beneficial and the types of patients most likely to benefit, including comparisons between ward and intensive care unit patients. We hypothesize that patient-centered outcomes can be improved without increasing costs by simply changing the default option for palliative care consultation from opt-in to opt-out for patients with life-limiting illnesses. Patients aged 65 years or older are enrolled at 11 hospitals using an integrated electronic health record. As a pragmatic trial designed to enroll between 12,000 and 15,000 patients, eligibility is determined using a validated, electronic health record-based algorithm, and all outcomes are captured via the electronic health record and billing systems data. The time at which each hospital transitions from control, opt-in palliative care consultation to intervention, opt-out consultation is randomly assigned. The primary outcome is a composite measure of in-hospital mortality and length of stay. Secondary outcomes include palliative care process measures and clinical and economic outcomes. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT02505035).
Label Included: 0

Title: Cautionary tales in the interpretation of observational studies of effects of clinical interventions.
Abstract: Observational studies of the effectiveness of clinical interventions are proliferating as more 'real-world' clinical data (so called 'big data') are gathered from clinical registries, administrative datasets and electronic health records. While well-conducted randomised controlled trials (RCT) remain the scientific standard in assessing the efficacy of clinical interventions, well-designed observational studies may add to the evidence base of effectiveness in situations where RCT are of limited value or very difficult to perform. Rather than dismissing observational studies, we need to determine what circumstances may justify doing an observational study and when the study is sufficiently rigorous to be considered reasonably trustworthy. This article proposes criteria by which users of the literature might make such determinations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs after hip fracture in independently living patients: a randomised comparison of three rehabilitation modalities.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate costs and cost-effectiveness of physical and geriatric rehabilitation after hip fracture.
DESIGN: Prospective randomised study (mean age 78 years, 105 male, 433 female) in different rehabilitation settings: physically oriented (187 patients), geriatrically oriented (171 patients), and healthcare centre hospital (control, 180 patients).
MAIN MEASURES: At 12 months post-fracture, we collected data regarding days in rehabilitation, post-rehabilitation hospital treatment, other healthcare service use, number of re-operations, taxi use by patient or relative, and help from relatives.
RESULTS: Control rehabilitation (4945,2€) was significantly less expensive than physical (6609.0€, p=0.002) and geriatric rehabilitation (7034.7€ p<0.001). Total institutional care costs (primary treatment, rehabilitation, and post-rehabilitation hospital care) were lower for control (13,438.4€) than geriatric rehabilitation (17,201.7€, p<0.001), but did not differ between control and physical rehabilitation (15659.1€, p=0.055) or between physical and geriatric rehabilitation ( p=0.252). Costs of help from relatives (estimated as 30%, 50% and 100% of a home aid's salary) with physical rehabilitation were lower than control ( p=0.016) but higher than geriatric rehabilitation ( p=0.041). Total hip fracture treatment costs were lower with physical (36,356€, 51,018€) than control rehabilitation (38,018€, 57,031€) at 50% and 100% of salary ( p=0.032, p=0.014, respectively). At one year post-fracture, 15D-score was significantly higher in physical rehabilitation group (0.697) than geriatric rehabilitation group (0.586, p=0.008) and control group (0.594, p=0.009).
CONCLUSIONS: Considering total costs one year after hip fracture the treatment including physical rehabilitation is significantly more cost-effective than routine treatment. This effect could not be seen between routine treatment and treatment including geriatric rehabilitation.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility and Limitations of Vaccine Two-Dimensional Barcoding Using Mobile Devices.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Two-dimensional (2D) barcoding has the potential to enhance documentation of vaccine encounters at the point of care. However, this is currently limited to environments equipped with dedicated barcode scanners and compatible record systems. Mobile devices may present a cost-effective alternative to leverage 2D vaccine vial barcodes and improve vaccine product-specific information residing in digital health records.
OBJECTIVE: Mobile devices have the potential to capture product-specific information from 2D vaccine vial barcodes. We sought to examine the feasibility, performance, and potential limitations of scanning 2D barcodes on vaccine vials using 4 different mobile phones.
METHODS: A unique barcode scanning app was developed for Android and iOS operating systems. The impact of 4 variables on the scan success rate, data accuracy, and time to scan were examined: barcode size, curvature, fading, and ambient lighting conditions. Two experimenters performed 4 trials 10 times each, amounting to a total of 2160 barcode scan attempts.
RESULTS: Of the 1832 successful scans performed in this evaluation, zero produced incorrect data. Five-millimeter barcodes were the slowest to scan, although only by 0.5 seconds on average. Barcodes with up to 50% fading had a 100% success rate, but success rate deteriorated beyond 60% fading. Curved barcodes took longer to scan compared with flat, but success rate deterioration was only observed at a vial diameter of 10 mm. Light conditions did not affect success rate or scan time between 500 lux and 20 lux. Conditions below 20 lux impeded the device's ability to scan successfully. Variability in scan time was observed across devices in all trials performed.
CONCLUSIONS: 2D vaccine barcoding is possible using mobile devices and is successful under the majority of conditions examined. Manufacturers utilizing 2D barcodes should take into consideration the impact of factors that limit scan success rates. Future studies should evaluate the effect of mobile barcoding on workflow and vaccine administrator acceptance.
Label Included: 0

Title: Online support system for students in higher education: Proof-of-concept study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Providing support to the increasing numbers of students facing mental health difficulties in higher education (HE) can be difficult due to stigma or lack of resources. Alternative and/or complementary sources of support are needed, such as online interventions that are recognised for their therapeutic value and cost-effectiveness.
OBJECTIVES: We aim to provide evidence supporting the conceptual and practical value of a newly developed online multimedia intervention system for HE students who face mild to moderate symptoms of anxiety and depression and study-skills difficulties.
METHODS: Students from five universities were invited to participate in a cross-sectional proof-of-concept study. Students were invited through the universities' internal communication channels. Following demonstration of each part of the system, students completed a survey with quantitative and qualitative questions.
RESULTS: Response was largely positive. Positive responses on the features of the questionnaire ranged between 65% and 86%; on the features of the workshops ranged between 57% and 91%; on 'My place' ranged between 65% and 79%; on the animated videos ranged between 79% and 92%; and on the overall system ranged between 78% and 89%. Participants indicated areas for improvement and ways in which such improvement could be accomplished; these then guided the development of the system.
CONCLUSIONS: The results confirm the need for such a system. It can complement student support services (SSS) by dealing with cases with mild to moderate difficulties, hence allowing SSS to prioritise and effectively address more severe cases. Potentially this method can provide a meaningful alternative to SSS; this is worth investigating further.
Label Included: 0

Title: Benefits of using an electronic health record.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: National eHealth Implementation: Country Experience.
Abstract: A national eHealth strategy is presumed to empower health professionals, patients and citizens to increase patient safety and quality of health care delivery. A national eHealth infrastructure encompassing a secure HealthNet, interconnected electronic health records, e-prescriptions, a national medication database and a patient portal has been implemented in Iceland. The timely and secure access to patient information by health professionals through a single portal, independent of where the patient received care, is expected to increase continuity of care, decrease duplication of data and tests, increase efficiency, increase cost effectiveness and benefit citizens in several ways. The eHealth strategy needs to be evaluated using comparable indicators.
Label Included: 0

Title: Community detoxification for alcohol dependence: A systematic review.
Abstract: ISSUES: Despite the potential advantages of community detoxification for alcohol dependence, in many countries the available resources are mostly focused on specialist services that are resource-intensive, and often difficult to access because of financial or geographical factors. The aim of this systematic review is to synthesise the existing literature about the management of alcohol detoxification in the community to examine its effectiveness, safety, acceptability and feasibility.
APPROACH: The systematic review was guided by an a priori defined protocol consistent with the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) statement. Cochrane library, Medline, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Global Health and CINAHL databases were searched using appropriate search terms. A qualitative synthesis of the data was conducted as the heterogeneity of study designs, samples and outcomes measured precluded a meta-analyses.
KEY FINDINGS: Twenty studies with a range of designs were eligible for the review. Community detoxification had high completion rates and was reported to be safe. Compared to patients undergoing facility based detoxification, those who underwent community detoxification had better drinking outcomes. Community detoxification was cheaper than facility based detoxification and generally had good acceptability by various stakeholders.
IMPLICATIONS: For certain patients, community detoxification should be considered as a viable option to increase access to care.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the current evidence base to some extent supports the case for community detoxification there is a need for more randomised controlled trials testing the cost effectiveness of community detoxification in comparison with inpatient detoxification. [Nadkarni A, Endsley P, Bhatia U, Fuhr DC, Noorani A, Naik A, Murthy P, Velleman R. Community detoxification for alcohol dependence: A systematic review Drug Alcohol Rev 2017;36:389-399].
Label Included: 0

Title: The impact of prenatally diagnosed Klinefelter Syndrome on obstetric and neonatal outcomes.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to examine the obstetric and neonatal outcomes as well as the as the associated hospital costs for pregnancies complicated by prenatally diagnosed Klinefelter Syndrome, 47,XXY.
STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of all of the singleton deliveries in California from 2005 to 2008 using vital statistics and ICD-9 data, specifically identifying cases of fetal Klinefelter Syndrome. Specifically, we were interested in the outcomes of preterm delivery, preeclampsia, intrauterine fetal demise, cesarean delivery, neonatal death, respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), small for gestational age, large for gestational age, neonatal death, and infant death. Bivariate and multivariate analyses were used to compare pregnancies and neonates affected by prenatally diagnosed Klinefelter Syndrome to those that were not affected with 47,XXY.
RESULTS: There were 2,029,000 deliveries in the cohort, including 52 women with prenatally diagnosed 47,XXY. Advanced maternal age, completion of 12th grade, and private insurance were all associated with a prenatal diagnosis of Klinefelter Syndrome. Compared to unaffected deliveries, pregnancies complicated by prenatally diagnosed Klinefelter Syndrome had higher rates of preterm delivery (23.1% vs 9.9%, p=0.0004), cesarean delivery (50.0% vs 30.2%, p=0.004), and RDS (9.6% vs 1.2%, p=<0.0001). Infants with 47,XXY were markedly more likely to be small for gestational age, including less than the 10th, 5th and 3rd percentile (aOR 5.86 (95% CI 2.99, 11.46), 6.03 (95% CI 2.52, 14.43), and 8.28 (95% CI 3.22, 21.25), p≤0.001). Rates of neonatal death were 9.5 times higher (1.9% vs 0.2% p<0.0001) in the 47,XXY cohort, and rates of infant death were more than 50 times higher (5.8% vs 0.1%, p<0.0001). In the adjusted analysis, prenatally diagnosed 47,XXY was associated with increased odds of preterm delivery <32 weeks (OR 6.81, 95% CI 2. .38, 19.52), IVH (OR 9.08, 95% CI 1.22, 67.7), RDS (OR 8.32, 95% CI 3.22, 21.49), neonatal death (OR 9.77, 1.33, 71.79), and infant death (OR 62.73, 95% CI 19.34, 203.4).
CONCLUSION: Pregnancies affected by prenatally diagnosed Klinefelter Syndrome are at an increased risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes. These findings may be helpful when counseling families with pregnancies affected by fetal 47,XXY.
Label Included: 0

Title: Assessment of Utilization and Cost-Effectiveness of Telemedicine Program in Western Regions of China: A 12-Year Study of 249 Hospitals Across 112 Cities.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The imbalance in healthcare between urban and rural areas is still a problem in China. In recent decades, China has aimed to develop telemedicine. We assessed the implementation, utilization, and cost-effectiveness of a large telemedicine program across western China.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In 2002-2013, a government-sponsored major telemedicine program was established by West China Hospital of Sichuan University (hub), covering 249 spoke hospitals in 112 cities throughout western China and in 40 medical expertise areas. We analyzed the cross-sectional data from 11,987 consultations conducted at West China Hospital using the telemedicine network over a 12-year period. The types of diseases as well as the diagnosis and treatment changes were assessed. We also performed a cost-savings analysis and a one-way sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 11,987 teleconsultations, we noted that neoplasms (19.4%), injuries (13.9%), and circulatory diseases (10.3%) were the three most common diagnoses. Teleconsultations resulted in a change of diagnosis in 4,772 (39.8%) patients, and 3,707 (77.7%) of them underwent major diagnosis changes. Moreover, it led to a change of treatment in 6,591 (55.0%) patients, including 3,677 (55.8%) changes not linked to diagnosis changes. The telemedicine network resulted in an estimated net saving of $2,364,525 (if the patients traveled to the hub) or $3,759,014 (if the specialists traveled to the spoke hospitals).
CONCLUSIONS: The introduction of telemedicine in China, linking highly specialized major hospitals (hub) with hundreds of small rural hospitals (spoke), can greatly improve the quality, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of healthcare delivery and utilization. This new Internet-based healthcare model should be utilized more widely in developing countries.
Label Included: 1

Title: Challenges Facing Children with Special Healthcare Needs and Their Families: Telemedicine as a Bridge to Care.
Abstract: Telemedicine is an increasingly utilized mode of healthcare delivery, which improves access to care for vulnerable populations. Children with Special Healthcare Needs (CSHCN) and their families face significant challenges, such as geographic, financial, and sociocultural barriers, in accessing needed healthcare services. The literature supports telemedicine as an effective accepted bridge between CSHCN and their providers. A growing body of telemedicine projects also suggests cost-effectiveness when considering the direct and indirect costs the families of CSCHN incur in seeking healthcare services. These new systems of care should prioritize caring and family centeredness while reducing the burdens of CSHCN and their families.
Label Included: 0

Title: Urban Telemedicine: The Applicability of Teleburns in the Rehabilitative Phase.
Abstract: Telemedicine has been successfully used in many areas of medicine, including triage and evaluation of the acute burn patient. The utility of telemedicine during the rehabilitative phase of burn care has yet to be evaluated; therefore, we expanded our telemedicine program to link our burn center with a rehabilitation facility. The goal of this project was to demonstrate cost-effective improvements in the transition and quality of care. A retrospective review was performed on all patients enrolled in our telemedicine/rehabilitation program between March 2013 and March 2014. Data collected included total number of encounters, visits, type of visit, physician time, and readmissions. Transportation costs were based on local ambulance rates between the two facilities. The impact of telemedicine was evaluated with respect to the time saved for the physician, burn center, and burn clinic, as well as rehabilitative days saved. A patient satisfaction survey was also administered. A total of 29 patients participated in 73 virtual visits through the telemedicine project. Virtual visits included new consults, preoperative evaluations, and postoperative follow-ups. A total of 146 ambulance transports were averted during the study period, totaling $101,110. Virtual visits saved 6.8 outpatient burn clinic days, or 73 clinic appointments of 30-min duration. The ability to perform more outpatient surgery resulted in 80 inpatient bed days saved at the burn hospital. The rehabilitation hospital saved an average of 2 to 3 patient days secondary to unnecessary travel. Satisfaction surveys demonstrated patient satisfaction with the encounters, primarily related to time saved. The decrease in travel time for the patient from the rehabilitation hospital to outpatient burn clinic improved adherence to the rehabilitation care plan and resulted in increased throughput at the rehabilitation facility. Videoconferencing between a burn center and rehabilitation hospital streamlined patient care and reduced health care costs, while maintaining quality of care and patient satisfaction. This program has improved inpatient burn rehabilitation by maximizing time spent in therapy and avoiding unnecessary patient travel to offsite appointments.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health Economic Impact of a Pulmonary Artery Pressure Sensor for Heart Failure Telemonitoring: A Dynamic Simulation.
Abstract: AIMS: Recently, a permanently implantable wireless system, designed to monitor and manage pulmonary artery (PA) pressures remotely, demonstrated significant reductions in heart failure (HF) hospitalizations in high-risk symptomatic patients, regardless of ejection fraction. The objectives of this study were to simulate the estimated clinical and economic impact in Germany of generalized use of this PA pressure monitoring system considering reductions of HF hospitalizations and the improvement in Quality of Life.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Based on the Prospective Health Technology Assessment approach, we simulated the potential of the widespread application of PA pressure monitoring on the German healthcare system for the period 2009-2021.
RESULTS: This healthcare economic simulation formulated input assumptions based on results from the CHAMPION Trial, a multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled U.S. trial that demonstrated a 37% reduction of hospitalizations in persistently symptomatic previous HF patients. Based on these results, an estimated 114,800 hospitalizations would expected to be avoided. This effect would potentially save an estimated €522 million, an equivalent of $575 million, during the entire simulation period.
CONCLUSION: This healthcare economic modeling of the PA pressure monitoring system's impact demonstrates substantial clinical and economic benefits in the German healthcare system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Innovative Medical Technology, Health Technology Assessment, and Health Policy: The Case of Remote Patient Monitoring of Cardiac Implantable Electronic Devices in South Korea.
Abstract: In many developed countries with universal coverage healthcare systems, payers require new medical technologies to be assessed as safe, effective, and cost-effective through health technology assessment (HTA) before approval for reimbursement coverage and market access. However, in some cases, HTA is not the sole criterion for decision-making and other factors override the evidence. Remote patient monitoring (RPM) for cardiac implantable electronic devices, a novel technology recognized as safe, effective, and cost-effective, and the standard of care in many countries, is prohibited in South Korea. This peculiar situation is apparently due to deficiencies in healthcare policy and the delivery system and also to poor engagement between stakeholders. We propose that a higher level of engagement and trust between stakeholders needs to be developed, and healthcare providers should be involved in the early development of health policy, so that unnecessary barriers to access to useful medical technology are corrected, thereby allowing Koreans to enjoy the benefits available in other developed countries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote home management for chronic kidney disease: A systematic review.
Abstract: Background Remote home management is a new healthcare model that uses information technology to enhance patients' self-management of disease in a home setting. This study is designed to identify the effects of remote home management on patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Methods A comprehensive search of PubMed, MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials was performed in January 2015. The reference listings of the included articles in this review were also manually examined. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) designed to evaluate the effects of remote home management on patients with CKD were included. Results Eight trials were identified. The results of this study suggest that the quality of life (QOL) enabled by remote home management was higher than typical care in certain dimensions. However, the effects of remote home management on blood pressure (BP) remain inconclusive. The studies that assessed health service utilization demonstrated a significant decrease in hospital readmission, emergency room visits, and number of days in the hospital. Another favorable result of this study is that regardless of their gender, age or nationality, patients tend to comply with remote home management programs and the use of related technologies. Conclusions The available data indicate that remote home management may be a novel and effective disease management strategy for improving CKD patients' QOL and influencing their attitudes and behaviors. And, relatively little is known about BP and cost-effectiveness, so future research should focus on these two aspects for the entire population of patients with CKD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Effective Staffing for an EHR Implementation.
Abstract: This case study explores costs of electronic health record (EHR) implementation with the nursing super-user role in a metropolitan, not-for-profit health care system. Tapping the local pool of unemployed newly graduated nurses as half the required super-user workforce leveraged the technology skills of novice registered nurses (RNs) as trainers of experienced nurses in five hospitals. The novel workforce migrated from hospital to hospital, thereby reducing the number of experienced nurses reassigned to super-user duties in each hospital. This strategy reduced the amount of contract labor required to backfill nurse super-users' clinical shifts. Employment of the recently graduated nurses as RN residents upon completion of the EHR implementation enabled the organization to augment its clinical workforce with expert users of its EHR. The proposed innovative model increases super-users, minimizes disruption of core staffing, and dramatically reduces expense.
Label Included: 0

Title: Systematic thematic review of e-health research in the Gulf Cooperation Council (Arabian Gulf): Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates.
Abstract: Introduction The Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC or 'Arabian Gulf'), comprising Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates, is a political organization sharing a common history and culture. All GCC nations have made substantial investments in telecommunications and electronic health infrastructure since 2000. Methods We conducted a literature search in English and Arabic on peer-reviewed e-health research up to December 2014 originating in the GCC. The objective was to retrieve all research on e-health in the GCC and to categorize and analyse it qualitatively to reveal the current state of e-health research and development in the region. Inclusion criteria included peer-reviewed articles, books, book chapters, conference papers and graduate theses written on e-health in the GCC. Blogs, health websites and non-peer-reviewed literature were excluded. Results Three hundred and six articles were retrieved, categorized and analysed qualitatively to reveal the state of e-health research in the GCC. Both country-specific and GCC-wide major themes were identified using NVivo 10.0 qualitative software and summarized. The most common type of study was an overview (35.0%), with common study designs of case studies (26.8%) and descriptive articles (46.4%). Significant themes were: prospective national benefits from e-health, implementation and satisfaction with electronic health records, online technologies in medical education, innovative systems (case studies), and information security and personal health information. Discussion This is the first comprehensive analytical literature review of e-health in the GCC. Important research gaps were identified: few cost-benefit analyses, controlled interventional studies, or research targeting gender and religious issues were retrieved.
Label Included: 0

Title: At-Home Versus In-Clinic INR Monitoring: A Cost-Utility Analysis from The Home INR Study (THINRS).
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Effective management of patients using warfarin is resource-intensive, requiring frequent in-clinic testing of the international normalized ratio (INR). Patient self-testing (PST) using portable at-home INR monitoring devices has emerged as a convenient alternative. As revealed by The Home INR Study (THINRS), event rates for PST were not significantly different from those for in-clinic high-quality anticoagulation management (HQACM), and a cumulative gain in quality of life was observed for patients undergoing PST.
OBJECTIVE: To perform a cost-utility analysis of weekly PST versus monthly HQACM and to examine the sensitivity of these results to testing frequency.
PATIENTS/INTERVENTIONS: In this study, 2922 patients taking warfarin for atrial fibrillation or mechanical heart valve, and who demonstrated PST competence, were randomized to either weekly PST (n = 1465) or monthly in-clinic testing (n = 1457). In a sub-study, 234 additional patients were randomized to PST once every 4 weeks (n = 116) or PST twice weekly (n = 118). The endpoints were quality of life (measured by the Health Utilities Index), health care utilization, and costs over 2 years of follow-up.
RESULTS: PST and HQACM participants were similar with regard to gender, age, and CHADS2 score. The total cost per patient over 2 years of follow-up was $32,484 for HQACM and $33,460 for weekly PST, representing a difference of $976. The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year gained with PST once weekly was $5566 (95 % CI, -$11,490 to $25,142). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was sensitive to testing frequency: weekly PST dominated PST twice weekly and once every 4 weeks. Compared to HQACM, weekly PST was associated with statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvements in quality of life. The ICER for weekly PST versus HQACM was well within accepted standards for cost-effectiveness, and was preferred over more or less frequent PST. These results were robust to sensitivity analyses of key assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Weekly PST is a cost-effective alternative to monthly HQACM and a preferred testing frequency compared to twice weekly or monthly PST.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost Analysis of Physician Assistant Home Visit Program to Reduce Readmissions After Cardiac Surgery.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: A physician assistant home care (PAHC) program providing house calls was initiated to reduce hospital readmissions after adult cardiac surgery. The purpose of our study was to compare 30-day PAHC and pre-PAHC readmission rate, length of stay, and cost.
METHODS: Patients who underwent adult cardiac surgery in the 48 months from September 2008 through August 2012 were retrospectively reviewed using pre-PAHC patients as the control group. Readmission rate, length of stay, and health care cost, as measured by hospital billing, were compared between groups matched with propensity score.
RESULTS: Of the 1,185 patients who were discharged directly home, 155 (13%) were readmitted. Total readmissions for the control group (n = 648) was 101 patients (16%) compared with the PAHC group (n = 537) total readmissions of 54 (10%), a 38% reduction in the rate of readmission (p = 0.0049). Propensity score matched groups showed a rate reduction of 41% with 17% (62 of 363) for the control compared with 10% (37 of 363) for the PAHC group (p = 0.0061). The average hospital bill per readmission was $39,100 for the control group and $56,600 for the PAHC group (p = 0.0547). The cost of providing home visits was $25,300 for 363 propensity score matched patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The PAHC program reduced the 30-day readmission rate by 41% for propensity score matched patients. Analysis demonstrated a savings of $977,500 at a cost of $25,300 over 2 years, or $39 in health care saved, in terms of hospital billing, for every $1 spent. Therefore, a home visit by a cardiac surgical physician assistant is a cost-effective strategy to reduce readmissions after cardiac surgery.
Label Included: 0

Title: Interactive digital interventions to promote self-management in adults with asthma: systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: To identify, summarise and synthesise the evidence for using interactive digital interventions to support patient self-management of asthma, and determine their impact.
METHODS: Systematic review with meta-analysis. We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, ERIC, Cochrane Library, DoPHER, TROPHI, Social Science Citation Index and Science Citation Index. The selection criteria requirement was studies of adults (16 years and over) with asthma, interventions that were interactive digital interventions and the comparator was usual care. Outcomes were change in clinical outcomes, cost effectiveness and patient-reported measures of wellbeing or quality of life. Only Randomised Controlled Trials published in peer-reviewed journals in English were eligible. Potential studies were screened and study characteristics and outcomes were extracted from eligible papers independently by two researchers. Where data allowed, meta-analysis was performed using a random effects model.
RESULTS: Eight papers describing 5 trials with 593 participants were included, but only three studies were eligible for inclusion for meta-analysis. Of these, two aimed to improve asthma control and the third aimed to reduce the total dose of oral prednisolone without worsening control. Analyses with data from all three studies showed no significant differences and extremely high heterogeneity for both Asthma Quality of Life (AQLQ) (Standardised Mean Difference (SMD) 0.05; 95 % Confidence Interval (CI) 0.32 to -0.22: I2 96.8) and asthma control (SMD 0.21; 95 % CI -0.05 to .42; I2 = 87.4). The removal of the third study reduced heterogeneity and indicated significant improvement for both AQLQ (SMD 0.45; 95 % CI 0.13 to 0.77: I2 = 0.34) and asthma control (SMD 0.54; 95 % CI 0.22 to 0.86: I2 = 0.11). No evidence of harm was identified.
CONCLUSION: Digital self-management interventions for adults with asthma show promise, with some evidence of small beneficial effects on asthma control. Overall, the evidence base remains weak due to the lack of large, robust trials.
Label Included: 0

Title: [An exploratory study of 'blended' cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for patients with a panic disorder: results and patients' experiences].
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Digital technology (e-health or 'blended' care), combined with evidence-based face-to-face CBT, is becoming increasingly implemented into mental health care and is expected to result in improved effectiveness and efficiency.
AIM: To explore the feasibility of blended CBT for patients with a panic disorder.
METHOD: Nine face-to-face sessions of blended CBT (n = 18), supplemented with the digital support of a tabletcomputer and three e-mail contacts, were compared with 12 weekly sessions of regular CBT (n = 18). Primary outcomes were panic frequency and avoidance behaviour; the secondary outcome was general functioning. Patients' experiences of the treatment were collected in the form of a structured interview.
RESULTS: The effect sizes found in both the regular and the blended CBT were medium to high (Cohen's d 0.42-1.60). In both types of treatment there was a significant reduction in patients' symptoms. There were no big differences in patient satisfaction regarding the treatment received. The therapists registered 39 face-to-face minutes in the blended treatment but they registered in total 41 fewer face-to-face minutes; this represented a time reduction of 4%.
CONCLUSION: Blended CBT with help of a tablet computer seems to be a suitable method for treating panic disorder psychologically, although the time saved is only moderate. Much more research is needed to ascertain the feasibility and the cost effectiveness of blended CBT.
Label Included: 0

Title: Allergy and Asthma Care in the Mobile Phone Era.
Abstract: Strategies to improve patients' adherence to treatment are essential to reduce the great health and economic burden of allergic rhinitis and asthma. Mobile phone applications (apps) for a better management of allergic diseases are growing in number, but their usefulness for doctors and patients is still debated. Controlled trials have investigated the feasibility, cost-effectiveness, security, and perspectives of the use of tele-medicine in the self-management of asthma. These studies focused on different tools or devices, such as SMS, telephone calls, automatic voice response system, mobile applications, speech recognition system, or cloud-computing systems. While some trials concluded that m-Health can improve asthma control and the patient's quality of life, others did not show any advantage in relation to usual care. The only controlled study on allergic rhinitis showed an improvement of adherence to treatment among tele-monitored patients compared to those managed with usual care. Most studies have also highlighted a few shortcomings and limitations of tele-medicine, mainly concerning security and cost-efficiency. The use of smartphones and apps for a personalized asthma and allergy care needs to be further evaluated and optimized before conclusions on its usefulness can be drawn.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evolving Health IT Systems Evaluation: The Convergence of Health Informatics and HTA.
Abstract: The credibility and reliability of health IT systems as a means of achieving changes towards safer and cost-effective care have been questioned for over two decades due to the lack of methodologically strong evidence. As national level adoption and implementation of health IT are becoming widespread across the EU and globally, but are also being offset by adverse reports, the demands for evidence become more pronounced and the stakes higher. The adaptation of HTA (health technology assessment) methodology as a means to address gaps in health IT evidence production has been proposed repeatedly and tested in the field of telemedicine services. HTA has in many ways run a course parallel to that of health IT, while in certain respects attaining more clear achievements. This contribution investigates aspects of a bilaterally beneficial relation between the two disciplines using three lines of exploration: the methodological goodness-of-fit between health IT evaluation and HTA; the solutions each has proposed to the problem of producing high quality evidence in reduced amount of time; and the way each has addressed the strengthened role and position of patients. The analysis demonstrates areas of convergence between health IT and HTA. It also highlights topics which would need to be jointly addressed in the process, such as innovative and high quality data collection and analysis, inclusion of patient reported outcomes and patient safety, and transferability and generalizability of findings. In closing, it takes a glimpse of the challenges emerging as a result of the progress at the cross-roads of medicine, science and technology.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hepatitis C Screening of the "Birth Cohort" (Born 1945-1965) and Younger Inmates of New York City Jails.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To examine uptake of screening for all individuals born between 1945 and 1965 (referred to by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as the "birth cohort") and outline preliminary HCV prevalence data in the New York City jail system.
METHODS: Data were extracted from electronic health records for all individuals screened for HCV between June 13, 2013, and June 13, 2014, in New York City jails. We used the Abbott EIA 2.0 HCV antibody assay for testing.
RESULTS: In the year of study, 56 590 individuals were incarcerated; 15.1% were born between 1945 and 1965, and 84.6% were born after 1965. HCV screening was completed for 64.1% of the birth cohort and for 11.1% born after 1965, with 55.1% and 43.8% of cases found in these groups, respectively. The overall seropositivity rate was 20.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: Birth cohort screening in a large jail system identified many HCV cases, but HCV infection was common among younger age groups.
PUBLIC HEALTH IMPLICATIONS: Universal screening may be warranted pending further study including cost-effectiveness analyses.
Label Included: 0

Title: Hands-free: A Low-Cost Adapter for Smartphone Microscopic Photography Using a Cardboard Toilet-Paper Roll.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Innovative strategies to improve diabetes outcomes in disadvantaged populations.
Abstract: Diabetes disproportionately affects disadvantaged populations. Eighty percent of deaths directly caused by diabetes occurred in low- and middle-income countries. In high-income countries, there are marked disparities in diabetes control among racial/ethnic minorities and those with low socio-economic status. Innovative, effective and cost-effective strategies are needed to improve diabetes outcomes in these populations. Technological advances, peer educators and community health workers have expanded methodologies to reach, educate and monitor individuals with diabetes. In the present manuscript we review the outcomes of these strategies, and describe the barriers to and facilitators of these approaches for improving diabetes outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact assessment and cost-effectiveness of m-health application used by community health workers for maternal, newborn and child health care services in rural Uttar Pradesh, India: a study protocol.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: An m-health application has been developed and implemented with community health workers to improve their counseling in a rural area of India. The ultimate aim was to generate demand and improve utilization of key maternal, neonatal, and child health services. The present study aims to assess the impact and cost-effectiveness of this project.
METHODS/DESIGN: A pre-post quasi-experimental design with a control group will be used to undertake difference in differences analysis for assessing the impact of intervention. The Annual Health Survey (2011) will provide pre-intervention data, and a household survey will be carried out to provide post-intervention data.Two community development blocks where the intervention was introduced will be treated as intervention blocks while two controls blocks are selected after matching with intervention blocks on three indicators: average number of antenatal care checkups, percentage of women receiving three or more antenatal checkups, and percentage of institutional deliveries. Two categories of beneficiaries will be interviewed in both areas: women with a child between 29 days and 6 months and women with a child between 12 and 23 months. Propensity score matched samples from intervention and control areas in pre-post periods will be analyzed using the difference in differences method to estimate the impact of intervention in utilization of key services.Bottom-up costing methods will be used to assess the cost of implementing intervention. A decision model will estimate long-term effects of improved health services utilization on mortality, morbidity, and disability. Cost-effectiveness will be assessed in terms of incremental cost per disability-adjusted life year averted and cost per unit increase in composite service coverage in intervention versus control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The study will generate significant evidence on impact of the m-health intervention for maternal, neonatal, and child services and on the cost of scaling up m-health technology for accredited social health activists in India.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telerehabilitation after total knee replacement in Italy: cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis of a mixed telerehabilitation-standard rehabilitation programme compared with usual care.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To assess cost-effectiveness and cost utility of telerehabilitation (TR) versus standard rehabilitation (SR) after total knee replacement (TKR).
DESIGN: Markov decision modelling of cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis based on patient-level and secondary data sources employing Italian National Health Service (NHS; Ita-NHS) and Society perspectives.
SETTING: Primary care units (PCUs) in Italy.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients discharged after TKR.
INTERVENTIONS: Mixed SR-TR service (10 face-to-face sessions and 10 telesessions) versus SR (20 face-to-face sessions)
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: The incremental cost per additional knee flexion range of motion (ROM) and per QALY gained by SR-TR compared with SR. Second, we considered the probability of being cost-effective and the probability of being more effective and less expensive.
RESULTS: TR appears to be the cost-effective in the base case and in all of the considered scenarios, but is no longer more effective and less expensive if transportation costs are excluded. Comparing SR-TR with SR, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) adopting the Ita-NHS perspective for the base case was -€117/ROM gained. The cost-effectiveness probability for SR-TR was 0.98 (ceiling ratio: €50/ROM), while the joint probability of being more effective and less expensive was 0.87. Assuming that TR would increase health-related quality of life (HRQOL) utilities by 2.5%, the ICER adopting Ita-NHS perspective is -€960/QALY (cost-effectiveness probability: 1; ceiling ratio: €30 000/QALY). All the performed sensitivity analyses did not change the conclusions, but if transportation costs were excluded, the probability for SR-TR of being more clinically effective and less expensive reduced to 0.56.
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis suggested SR-TR to be cost-effective, even less expensive and more effective if the PCUs provide ambulance transportations. However, the uncertainty related to TR costs, HRQOL and long-term clinical outcomes raises important topics for future research, which should be addressed to confirm our estimates.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN45837371.
Label Included: 1

Title: Personalised long-term follow-up of cochlear implant patients using remote care, compared with those on the standard care pathway: study protocol for a feasibility randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Many resources are required to provide postoperative care to patients who receive a cochlear implant. The implant service commits to lifetime follow-up. The patient commits to regular adjustment and rehabilitation appointments in the first year and annual follow-up appointments thereafter. Offering remote follow-up may result in more stable hearing, reduced patient travel expense, time and disruption, more empowered patients, greater equality in service delivery and more freedom to optimise the allocation of clinic resources.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This will be a two-arm feasibility randomised controlled trial (RCT) involving 60 adults using cochlear implants with at least 6 months device experience in a 6-month clinical trial of remote care. This project will design, implement and evaluate a person-centred long-term follow-up pathway for people using cochlear implants offering a triple approach of remote and self-monitoring, self-adjustment of device and a personalised online support tool for home speech recognition testing, information, self-rehabilitation, advice, equipment training and troubleshooting. The main outcome measure is patient activation. Secondary outcomes are stability and quality of hearing, stability of quality of life, clinic resources, patient and clinician experience, and any adverse events associated with remote care. We will examine the acceptability of remote care to service users and clinicians, the willingness of participants to be randomised, and attrition rates. We will estimate numbers required to plan a fully powered RCT.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval was received from North West-Greater Manchester South Research Ethics Committee (15/NW/0860) and the University of Southampton Research Governance Office (ERGO 15329).
RESULTS: Results will be disseminated in the clinical and scientific communities and also to the patient population via peer-reviewed research publications both online and in print, conference and meeting presentations, posters, newsletter articles, website reports and social media.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN14644286; Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Investigating the feasibility, acceptability and appropriateness of outreach case management in an urban Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander primary health care service: a mixed methods exploratory study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The disparities in health and life expectancy of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples compared to non-Indigenous Australians are well documented. Chronic diseases are a leading contributor to these disparities. We aimed to determine the feasibility, acceptability and appropriateness of a case management approach to chronic disease care integrated within an urban Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander primary health care service.
METHODS: The Home-based, Outreach case Management of chronic disease Exploratory (HOME) Study provided holistic, patient centred multidisciplinary care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people with chronic disease. A developmental evaluation approach supported the implementation and ongoing adaptations in the delivery of the model of care, and ensured its alignment with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples' understandings of, and approaches to, health and wellbeing. In-depth, semi-structured interviews were conducted with nine patient participants (one interview also included a participant's spouse) and 15 health service staff and key themes were identified through an iterative reflective process. Quantitative data were collected directly from patient participants and from their medical records at baseline, 3 and 6 months. Patient participants' baseline characteristics were described using frequencies and percentages. Attrition and patterns of missing values over time were evaluated using binomial generalized estimating equation (GEE) models and mean differences in key clinical outcomes were determined using normal GEE models.
RESULTS: Forty-one patients were recruited and nine withdrew over the 6 month period. There was no evidence of differential attrition. All participants (patients and health service staff) were very positive about the model of care. Patient participants became more involved in their health care, depression rates significantly decreased (p = 0.03), and significant improvements in systolic blood pressure (p < 0.001) and diabetes control (p = 0.05) were achieved.
CONCLUSIONS: The exploratory nature of our study preclude any definitive statements about the effectiveness of our model of care. However, staff and patients' high levels of satisfaction and improvements in the health and wellbeing of patients are promising and suggest its feasibility, acceptability and appropriateness. Further research is required to determine its efficacy, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in improving the quality of life and quality of care for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples living with chronic disease.
Label Included: 0

Title: Dealing with daily challenges in dementia (deal-id study): effectiveness of the experience sampling method intervention 'Partner in Sight' for spousal caregivers of people with dementia: design of a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is an urgent need for psychosocial interventions that effectively support dementia caregivers in daily life. The Experience Sampling Methodology (ESM) offers the possibility to provide a more dynamic view of caregiver functioning. ESM-derived feedback may help to redirect caregivers' behavior towards situations that elicit positive emotions and to increase their feelings of competence in the caretaking process. This paper presents the design of a study that evaluates the process characteristics and effects of the ESM-based intervention 'Partner in Sight'.
METHODS/DESIGN: A randomized controlled trial with 90 spousal caregivers of people with dementia will be conducted. Participants will be randomly assigned to the experimental (6-week ESM intervention including feedback), pseudo-experimental (6-week ESM intervention without feedback), or control group (care as usual). Assessments will be performed pre- and post-intervention and at 2-, and 6-month follow-up. Main outcomes will be sense of competence, perceived control, momentary positive affect, and psychological complaints (depressive symptoms, perceived stress, anxiety, momentary negative affect). In addition to the effect evaluation, a process and economic evaluation will be conducted to investigate the credibility and generalizability of the intervention, and its cost-effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: The potential effects of the ESM intervention may help caregivers to endure their care responsibilities and prevent them from becoming overburdened. This is the first ESM intervention for caregivers of people with dementia. The results of this study, therefore, provide a valuable contribution to the growing knowledge on m-health interventions for dementia caregivers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Dutch Trial Register NTR4847 ; date registered Oct 9, 2014.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Experience of a Sustainable Large Scale Brazilian Telehealth Network.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In Brazil, the majority of healthcare resources are concentrated in the largest cities, whereas most communities lack proper healthcare assistance in primary care and have difficulties accessing specialists and diagnostic examinations. Considering this, the Telehealth Network of Minas Gerais (TNMG) was created. It is a public telehealth initiative that provides support to primary healthcare (PHC), performing teleconsultation and telediagnosis (electrocardiogram [ECG], Holter, ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, spirometry, and retinography analysis) mainly for small and remote cities in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil.
PURPOSE: To describe the successful experience of the TNMG in 10 years of activities.
METHODS: The TNMG was created in 2005 and supported PHC in 82 cities as a research project and was progressively expanded. A methodology for implementation and maintenance was developed, including quality control. Nowadays it provides support to 750 cities, 88.0% of Minas Gerais state. The examinations performed by the PHC team, with additional basic clinical data, are transmitted through the Internet to the TNMG specialists for remote interpretation. The TNMG teleconsultations system has been used by the PHC team to address written clinical questions to university staff.
RESULTS: Until December 2015, 2,464,999 ECGs and 73,698 teleconsultations have already been performed: on average, 2,000 ECGs and 40 teleconsultations per day in 2015. More than 95% of users have declared to be satisfied or very satisfied with the service. A recent cost-benefit analysis of the project showed that for each dollar invested, 6.1 dollars are saved as a consequence of patient referral reduction.
CONCLUSIONS: The TNMG is a successful example of a sustainable telehealth service, integrated to primary care centers of remote and small cities. It overcomes geographical barriers to provide specialized healthcare, reducing the number of unnecessary referrals, and contributing to improve the case-resolving capacity and the quality of the PHC.
Label Included: 0

Title: Adherence to Biobehavioral Recommendations in Pediatric Migraine as Measured by Electronic Monitoring: The Adherence in Migraine (AIM) Study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this investigation was to examine treatment adherence to medication and lifestyle recommendations among pediatric migraine patients using electronic monitoring systems.
BACKGROUND: Nonadherence to medical treatment is a significant public health concern, and can result in poorer treatment outcomes, decreased cost-effectiveness of medical care, and increased morbidity. No studies have systematically examined adherence to medication and lifestyle recommendations in adolescents with migraine outside of a clinical trial.
METHODS: Participants included 56 adolescents ages 11-17 who were presenting for clinical care. All were diagnosed with migraine with or without aura or chronic migraine and had at least 4 headache days per month. Medication adherence was objectively measured using electronic monitoring systems (Medication Event Monitoring Systems technology) and daily, prospective self-report via personal electronic devices. Adherence to lifestyle recommendations of regular exercise, eating, and fluid intake were also assessed using daily self-report on personal electronic devices.
RESULTS: Electronic monitoring indicates that adolescents adhere to their medication 75% of the time, which was significantly higher than self-reported rates of medication adherence (64%). Use of electronic monitoring of medication detected rates of adherence that were significantly higher for participants taking once daily medication (85%) versus participants taking twice daily medication (59%). Average reported adherence to lifestyle recommendations of consistent noncaffeinated fluid intake (M = 5 cups per day) was below recommended levels of a minimum of 8 cups per day. Participants on average also reported skipping 1 meal per week despite recommendations of consistently eating three meals per day.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that intervention focused on adherence to preventive treatments (such as medication) and lifestyle recommendations may provide more optimal outcomes for children and adolescents with migraine and their families. Once daily dosing of medication may be preferred to twice daily medication for increased medication adherence among children and adolescents.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of outpatient services: a scoping review of interventions at the primary-secondary care interface.
Abstract: Objectives Variation in patterns of referral from primary care can lead to inappropriate overuse or underuse of specialist resources. Our aim was to review the literature on strategies involving primary care that are designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of outpatient services. Methods A scoping review to update a review published in 2006. We conducted a systematic literature search and qualitative evidence synthesis of studies across five intervention domains: transfer of services from hospital to primary care; relocation of hospital services to primary care; joint working between primary care practitioners and specialists; interventions to change the referral behaviour of primary care practitioners and interventions to change patient behaviour. Results The 183 studies published since 2005, taken with the findings of the previous review, suggest that transfer of services from secondary to primary care and strategies aimed at changing referral behaviour of primary care clinicians can be effective in reducing outpatient referrals and in increasing the appropriateness of referrals. Availability of specialist advice to primary care practitioners by email or phone and use of store-and-forward telemedicine also show potential for reducing outpatient referrals and hence reducing costs. There was little evidence of a beneficial effect of relocation of specialists to primary care, or joint primary/secondary care management of patients on outpatient referrals. Across all intervention categories there was little evidence available on cost-effectiveness. Conclusions There are a number of promising interventions which may improve the effectiveness and efficiency of outpatient services, including making it easier for primary care clinicians and specialists to discuss patients by email or phone. There remain substantial gaps in the evidence, particularly on cost-effectiveness, and new interventions should continue to be evaluated as they are implemented more widely. A move for specialists to work in the community is unlikely to be cost-effective without enhancing primary care clinicians' skills through education or joint consultations with complex patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Reablement in community-dwelling older adults: a cost-effectiveness analysis alongside a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: In the face of a growing number of older adults in the population, policy-makers in high-income countries are seeking new ways to reduce the expected growth in long-term care expenditure. Research shows that disability is an important determinant of long-term care utilization. In this context, reablement has received increased attention. Reablement is a form of home-based rehabilitation, which focuses on improving independent functioning in daily activities perceived as important by the older adult.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of reablement.
METHODS: The economic evaluation is based on data from a randomized controlled trial in which all participants were assessed at baseline and after 3 and 9 months. The intervention group participated in reablement, while the control group received usual care. The Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM) was used to measure self-perceived activity performance and satisfaction with performance. Cost data were based on daily registrations of usage of home-based care personnel during a period of 9 months.
RESULTS: Reablement was found to be more cost-effective than usual care. The assessments of performance and satisfaction regarding daily activities were significantly higher in the reablement group compared with the control group and this was achieved at lower cost. Importantly too, in the post-trial period, the intervention group requested significantly fewer home visits which were, on average, of significantly shorter duration compared with the control group. Expenditure on home visits was significantly lower for the reablement group.
CONCLUSIONS: Reablement is a more cost-effective intervention compared with usual care. Reablement has a potentially large effect on the demand for compensating home-based care services. Policy-makers should therefore consider implementing reablement on a larger scale.
Label Included: 0

Title: The effect of telehealth systems and satisfaction with health expenditure among patients with metabolic syndrome.
Abstract: Telehealth cost analysis has become a crucial issue for governments in recent years. In this study, we examined cases of metabolic syndrome in Hualien County, Taiwan. This research adopted the framework proposed by Marchand to establish a study process. In addition, descriptive statistics, a t test, analysis of variance, and regression analysis were employed to analyze 100 questionnaires. The results of the t$ test revealed significant differences in medical health expenditure, number of clinical visits for medical treatment, average amount of time spent commuting to clinics, amount of time spent undergoing medical treatment, and average number of people accompanying patients to medical care facilities or assisting with other tasks in the past one month, indicating that offering telehealth care services can reduce health expenditure. The statistical analysis results revealed that customer satisfaction has a positive effect on reducing health expenditure. Therefore, this study proves that telehealth care systems can effectively reduce health expenditure and directly improve customer satisfaction with medical treatment.
Label Included: 0

Title: Lost in translation: Focused documentation improvement benefits trauma surgeons.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: There is a translational gap between physicians who document in the medical record and coders, who ultimately determine which codes are submitted. This gap exists because physicians are never formally educated about documentation strategies despite the fact that the quality of physician documentation directly affects revenue, outcomes and public profiling. We evaluated the effect of a formal model of focused documentation improvement (FDI) on the trauma/critical care division. We hypothesized that FDI would improve physician documentation, resulting in revenue recovery and a shift in the case mix index (CMI) to more accurately reflect the clinical complexity of trauma patients.
METHODS: FDI is defined as targeted physician education followed by concurrent inpatient chart review for documentation improvement opportunities by a clinical documentation specialist (CDS). All trauma surgeons (n=9) at our Level 1 trauma center first completed three hours of mandatory training on documentation improvement. A CDS was subsequently assigned to the trauma service. They reviewed the charts of Medicare patients (n=776) from January-December 2014 to identify opportunities for documentation improvement, participated in ICU rounds and provided ongoing education. Requests to clarify documentation (queries) were posted in the electronic medical record (EMR) and physicians were required to respond within 48h. Data was collected on physician response rate, CMI and revenue recovery.
RESULTS: 411 of 776 (57%) charts were reviewed. Opportunities for FDI were identified in 177 (43%) cases. The physician response rate to queries was 100%. The CMI for reviewed cases increased (1.80 (SD 0.15) vs. 2.11 (SD 0.19); p<0.001) after FDI. Overall revenue recovery was $1,132,581 with an average of $154,092 in revenue recovery/clinical full time equivalent. The total cost for administration of FDI was $353,265 resulting in a 220% return on investment (ROI).
CONCLUSION: FDI is an effective strategy to engage physicians in documentation improvement. It provides an infrastructure to assist physicians and yields a significant ROI.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemonitoring in Cystic Fibrosis: A 4-year Assessment and Simulation for the Next 6 Years.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Innovative technologies and informatics offer a wide range of services to health districts, doctors, nurses, and patients, and is changing the traditional concept of health care. In the last few years, the availability of portable devices, their easiness to transport and use, and the capability to collect and transmit various clinical data have resulted in the fast development of telemedicine. However, despite its potential impact in improving patient conditions, and its cost effectiveness reported in literature, telemedicine is not in daily practice.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to provide evidence of the positive impact of telemonitoring proving the sustainability of an application by sending spirometry outcomes from patients' homes to the hospital doctors via the Internet, and from doctors to patients by an additional phone call solution.
METHODS: We examined collected data related to clinical improvement of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The patients were followed-up at home using telemonitoring for a period of 10 years, with the aims to prove the sustainability of the methodology (transmissions of spirometry from the patients' home to the doctors and feedback from the doctors to the patients by phone call from the hospital). We stored and analyzed all spirometry transmissions received, and tested the possible presence to decrease the costs between the standard clinical trial (only ambulatory visits) and standard clinical trial with telemonitoring for the follow-up of patients with CF (telemedicine). This was done through an economic analysis of the costs for patients followed at home by telemonitoring. We assessed four years of observation and a simulation of total long-term costs between 2010 and 2020.
RESULTS: We discovered a potential saving of €40,397.00 per patient for 10 years, actualized at €36,802.97 for the follow-up of all patients enrolled.
CONCLUSIONS: The results from the study suggest that telemedicine can improve the health of patients with CF. It is a relatively cheap and potentially sustainable solution, compared to standard clinical trials. However, to establish and prove the long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, more controlled psychological and behavioral studies are needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of the blended care self-management program "Partner in Balance" for early-stage dementia caregivers: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The benefits of e-health support for dementia caregivers are becoming increasingly recognized. Reaching early-stage dementia caregivers could prevent high levels of burden and psychological problems in them in the later stages of dementia. An iterative step-wise approach was employed to develop the blended care self-management program "Partner in Balance" for early-stage dementia caregivers. The design of a study evaluating the process characteristics and effects is presented.
METHODS/DESIGN: A mixed-method, single-blind, randomized controlled trial with 80 family caregivers of community-dwelling people with (very) mild dementia will be conducted. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the 8-week blended care self-management program "Partner in Balance" or a waiting-list control group. Data will be collected pre intervention and post intervention and at 3-, 6- and 12-month follow-ups. Semi-structured interviews will be conducted post intervention. A process evaluation will investigate the internal and external validity of the intervention. Primary outcomes will include self-efficacy and symptoms of depression. Secondary outcomes will include goal attainment, mastery, psychological complaints (feelings of anxiety and perceived stress), and quality of life. Possible modifying variables such as caregiver characteristics (quality of the relationship, neurotic personality) and interventional aspects (coach) on the intervention effect will also be evaluated. A cost-consequence analysis will describe the costs and health outcomes.
DISCUSSION: We expect to find a significant increase in self-efficacy, goal attainment and quality of life and lower levels of psychological complaints (depression, anxiety and stress) in the intervention group, compared with the control group. If such effects are found, the program could provide accessible care to future generations of early-stage dementia caregivers and increase dementia care efficiency.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Dutch trial register NTR4748 .
Label Included: 0

Title: Switching Patients to Home-Based Subcutaneous Immunoglobulin: an Economic Evaluation of an Interprofessional Drug Therapy Management Program.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Home-based subcutaneous immunoglobulin (SCIg) therapy is an alternative to hospital-based intravenous infusions (IVIg). However, SCIg requires patient training and long-term support to ensure proper adherence, optimal efficacy and safety. We evaluated if switching patients to home-based SCIg including an interprofessional drug therapy management program (physician, community pharmacist and nurse) would be cost-effective within the Swiss healthcare system.
METHODS: A 3-year cost-minimization analysis was performed from a societal perspective comparing monthly IVIg in an outpatient clinic and home-based weekly SCIg including an interprofessional program. Healthcare costs (immunoglobulin, professional time, infusion pump and disposables) were derived from administrative data. Transportation and productivity loss were estimated by expert opinion. The results were expressed in Swiss francs (CHF) and converted to Euros and US dollars (1 CHF = 0.92€, 1 CHF = $1.02; www.xe.com , 12/14/2015).
RESULTS: Under base case assumptions, SCIg was estimated to cost 35,862 CHF (33,134€; $36,595) per patient during the first year and 30,309 CHF (28,004€; $30,929) in subsequent years versus 35,370 CHF (32,679€; $36,095) per year for IVIg. The total savings from switching to SCIg with the interprofessional program were 9630 CHF (8897€; $9828) per patient over 3 years. The results were relatively sensitive to the cost per gram of IgG, the cost of equipment and the annual number of infusions.
CONCLUSION: Home-based SCIg including an interprofessional therapy management program may be an efficient alternative for patients. The program provides long-term support from self-administration training to the responsible use of therapy (proper adherence, optimal efficacy and safety). Over the short term, additional costs from purchasing equipment and the drug therapy management program were offset by avoiding hospital costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine in the Himalayas: Operational Challenges-A Preliminary Report.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Nonavailability of quality healthcare in mountainous, isolated, inaccessible sparsely populated regions is a universal problem. In this project, remote virtual healthcare was provided at Keylong and Kaza in Himachal Pradesh (HP) in North India. This innovative public-private partnership (PPP) provides 24/7 affordable healthcare to an alpine community where people commute 20-50 km for primary and 250 km for secondary healthcare services. Following a need assessment study, an MoU was signed by Apollo Hospitals in January 2015 with the National Health Mission. The government paid for all services delivered, Capital Expenditure (CAPEX) and Operating Expenditure (OPEX). Noncompliance to auditable weekly and monthly program MIS would result in penalties.
METHODS: Apollo Telehealth Services customized a turnkey solution, end-to-end, on a program management approach with measurable milestones and monthly reports. Key health issues in the region were identified. Very Small Aperture Terminals were installed amidst landslides and subzero temperatures. In February and March 2015, staff recruited from the community and local government staff were trained in Chennai. A major cultural transformation had to be effected. Urban teleconsultants were sensitized for community interaction, while deploying cutting- edge technology.
RESULTS: Case records were audited. In the first 42 weeks, 2,213 teleconsults were provided, including 171 emergencies. Telelaboratory services and telehealth education programs have also been added.
CONCLUSIONS: Evaluation confirms that delivering remote healthcare in inhospitable terrains in a PPP mode is effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote monitoring of cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIED).
Abstract: With increasing indications and access to cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) worldwide, the number of patients needing CIED follow-up continues to rise. In parallel, the technology available for managing these devices has advanced considerably. In this setting, remote monitoring (RM) has emerged as a complement to routine in-office care. Rigorous studies, randomized and otherwise, have demonstrated advantages to patient with CIED management systems, which incorporates RM resulting in authoritative guidelines from relevant professional societies recommending RM for all eligible patients. In addition to clinical benefits, CIED management programs that include RM have been shown to be cost effective and associated with high patient satisfaction. Finally, RM programs hold promise for the future of CIED research in light of the massive data collected through RM databases converging with unprecedented computational capability. This review outlines the available data associated with clinical outcomes in patients managed with RM with an emphasis on randomized trials; the impact of RM on patient satisfaction, cost-effectiveness, and healthcare utilization; and possible future directions for the use of RM in clinical practice and research.
Label Included: 0

Title: Perioperative Outcomes, Health Care Costs, and Survival After Robotic-assisted Versus Open Radical Cystectomy: A National Comparative Effectiveness Study.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Radical cystectomy is the gold-standard management for muscle-invasive bladder cancer, and there is debate concerning the comparative effectiveness of robotic-assisted (RARC) versus open radical cystectomy (ORC).
OBJECTIVE: To compare utilization, perioperative, cost, and survival outcomes of RARC versus ORC.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: We identified bladder urothelial carcinoma treated with RARC (n=439) or ORC (n=7308) during 2002-2012 using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program-Medicare linked data.
INTERVENTION: Comparison of RARC versus ORC.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: We used propensity score matching to compare perioperative and survival outcomes, including lymph node yield, perioperative complications, and healthcare costs.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Utilization of RARC increased from 0.7% of radical cystectomies in 2002 to 18.5% in 2012 (p<0.001). Women comprised 13.9% versus 18.1% (p=0.007) of RARC versus ORC, respectively. RARC was associated with greater lymph node yield with 41.5% versus 34.9% having ≥10 lymph nodes removed (relative risk 1.1, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01-1.22, p=0.03) and shorter mean length of hospitalization at 10.1 (± standard deviation 7.1) d versus 11.2 (± 8.6) d (p=0.004). While inpatient costs were similar, RARC was associated with increased home healthcare utilization (relative risk 1.14, 95% CI 1.04-1.26, p=0.009) and higher 30-d (p<0.01) and 90-d (p<0.01) costs. With a median follow-up of 44 mo (interquartile range 16-78), overall survival (hazard ratio 0.88, 95% CI 0.74-1.05) and cancer-specific survival (hazard ratio 0.91, 95% CI 0.66-1.26) were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: RARC provides equivalent perioperative and intermediate term outcomes to ORC. Additional long-term and randomized studies are needed for continued comparative effectiveness assessment of RARC versus ORC.
PATIENT SUMMARY: Our population-based US study demonstrates that robotic-assisted radical cystectomy has similar perioperative and survival outcomes albeit at higher costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Implementation of a Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Adults With Schizophrenia in Colombia].
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To present overall strategies and activities for the implementation process of the recommendations contained in the clinical practice guideline for the management of adults with schizophrenia (GPC_E) published by the Colombian Ministry of Health and Welfare (MSPS). Prioritize the proposed recommendations, identify barriers and solving strategies to implement the GPC_E, and develop a monitoring and evaluation system for the key recommendations.
METHOD: The Guideline Developer Group (GDG) included professionals with primary dedication to implementation issues that accompanied the entire process. During the GDG meetings implementation topics were identified and discussed, and later complemented by literature reviews concerning the experience of mental health guidelines implementation at national and international level. Additionally, feedback from the discussions raised during the socialization meetings, and joint meetings with the MSPS and the Institute of Technology Assessment in Health (IETS) were included. The prioritization of recommendations was made in conjunction with the GDG, following the proposed steps in the methodological guide for the development of Clinical Practice Guidelines with Economic Evaluation in the General System of Social Security in Colombian Health (GMEGPC) using the tools 13 and 14. the conclusions and final adjustments were discussed with the GPC_E leaders.
RESULTS: The implementation chapter includes a description of the potential barriers, solution strategies, facilitators and monitoring indicators. The identified barriers were categorized in the following 3 groups: Cultural context, health system and proposed interventions. The issues related to solving strategies and facilitating education programs include community mental health, mental health training for health workers in primary care, decentralization and integration of mental health services at the primary care level, use of technologies information and communication and telemedicine. To monitor and evaluate o the implementation process, five (5) indicators were designed one (1) structure, two (2) process and two (2)outcome indicators.
CONCLUSION: The GPC_E implementation within the Colombian General health System of Social Security (SGSSSC) poses multiple challenges. Potential barriers, enabling strategies and indicators for monitoring and evaluation described in this article, can provide efficient support to ensure the success of this process in the institutions that will adopt the guideline.
Label Included: 0

Title: Yoga versus education for Veterans with chronic low back pain: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Chronic low back pain is the most frequent pain condition in Veterans and causes substantial suffering, decreased functional capacity, and lower quality of life. Symptoms of post-traumatic stress, depression, and mild traumatic brain injury are highly prevalent in Veterans with back pain. Yoga for low back pain has been demonstrated to be effective for civilians in randomized controlled trials. However, it is unknown if results from previously published trials generalize to military populations.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study is a parallel randomized controlled trial comparing yoga to education for 120 Veterans with chronic low back pain. Participants are Veterans ≥18 years old with low back pain present on at least half the days in the past six months and a self-reported average pain intensity in the previous week of ≥4 on a 0-10 scale. The 24-week study has an initial 12-week intervention period, where participants are randomized equally into (1) a standardized weekly group yoga class with home practice or (2) education delivered with a self-care book. Primary outcome measures are change at 12 weeks in low back pain intensity measured by the Defense and Veterans Pain Rating Scale (0-10) and back-related function using the 23-point Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire. In the subsequent 12-week follow-up period, yoga participants are encouraged to continue home yoga practice and education participants continue following recommendations from the book. Qualitative interviews with Veterans in the yoga group and their partners explore the impact of chronic low back pain and yoga on family relationships. We also assess cost-effectiveness from three perspectives: the Veteran, the Veterans Health Administration, and society using electronic medical records, self-reported cost data, and study records.
DISCUSSION: This study will help determine if yoga can become an effective treatment for Veterans with chronic low back pain and psychological comorbidities.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02224183.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Empirical Foundations of Telemedicine Interventions in Primary Care.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: This article presents the scientific evidence for the merits of telemedicine interventions in primary care. Although there is no uniform and consistent definition of primary care, most agree that it occupies a central role in the healthcare system as first contact for patients seeking care, as well as gatekeeper and coordinator of care. It enables and supports patient-centered care, the medical home, managed care, accountable care, and population health. Increasing concerns about sustainability and the anticipated shortages of primary care physicians have sparked interest in exploring the potential of telemedicine in addressing many of the challenges facing primary care in the United States and the world.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The findings are based on a systematic review of scientific studies published from 2005 through 2015. The initial search yielded 2,308 articles, with 86 meeting the inclusion criteria. Evidence is organized and evaluated according to feasibility/acceptance, intermediate outcomes, health outcomes, and cost.
RESULTS: The majority of studies support the feasibility/acceptance of telemedicine for use in primary care, although it varies significantly by demographic variables, such as gender, age, and socioeconomic status, and telemedicine has often been found more acceptable by patients than healthcare providers. Outcomes data are limited but overall suggest that telemedicine interventions are generally at least as effective as traditional care. Cost analyses vary, but telemedicine in primary care is increasingly demonstrated to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine has significant potential to address many of the challenges facing primary care in today's healthcare environment. Challenges still remain in validating its impact on clinical outcomes with scientific rigor, as well as in standardizing methods to assess cost, but patient and provider acceptance is increasingly making telemedicine a viable and integral component of primary care around the world.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness Evaluation of EHR: Simulation of an Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm in the Emergency Department.
Abstract: Health care organizations have installed electronic systems to increase efficiency in health care. Empirically assessing the cost-effectiveness of technologies to the health care system is a challenging and complex task. This study examined cost-effectiveness of additional clinical information supplied via an EHR system by simulating a case of abdominal aortic aneurysm devised and acted professionally by the Israel Center of Medical Simulation. We conducted a simulation-based study on physicians who were asked to treat a simulated patient for the prevalent medical scenario of hip and leg pain that actually corresponded to an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Half of the participating physicians from the Department of Emergency Medicine at Tel-Hashomer Hospital - Israel's largest - had access to an EHR system that integrates medical data from multiple health providers (community and hospitals) in addition to the local health record, and half did not. To model medical decision making, the results of the simulation were combined with a Markov Model within a decision tree. Cost-effectiveness was analyzed by comparing the effects of the admission/discharge decision in units of quality adjusted life years (QALYs) to the estimated costs. The results showed that using EHR in the ED increases the QALY of the patient and improves medical decision-making. The expenditure per patient for one QALY unit as a result of using the EHR was $1229, which is very cost-effective according to many accepted threshold values (less than all these values). Thus, using the EHR contributes to making a cost-effective decision in this specific but prevalent case.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Feasibility of the Nationwide Health Information Network.
Abstract: The Nationwide Health Information Network (NHIN) use in health care facilities was examined for utilization and efficacy; although the advantages are abundant, health care facilities have been reluctant to adopt it because of associated costs. The purpose of this study was to analyze the feasibility of a US NHIN by exploring and determining the benefits of an NHIN and assessing the barriers to its implementation. The research methodology applied in examining the implementation of NHIN in the United States was a qualitative literature review, which followed the basic guidelines of a systematic literature review, partnered with a semistructured interview of a chief information officer of a private, nonprofit, 193-bed hospital located in Westminster, Maryland. A total of 33 sources were referenced. The results of this study suggest that implementation and utilization of NHIN by health care industry stakeholders lead to an increased quality of patient care, increased patient-provider communication, and cost-savings opportunities. Increased quality of care is achieved by reducing adverse drug events and medical errors. Cost-savings opportunities are generated by a reduction in spending and prices that is attributable to electronic health record systems' increased efficiency and effectiveness. Nevertheless, barriers to NHIN implementation and utilization still remain throughout the health care industry, the main one being concerns about interoperability.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Teledermatology within Dutch nursing homes].
Abstract: Skin problems are common within the nursing home population and could have a significant impact on quality of life. As a form of long-distance consultation teledermatology offers several potential benefits within this frail population. In this review we discuss several aspects of teledermatology, especially in relation to the nursing home population. Several studies demonstrated that teledermatology is a cost-effective and easy-to-use consultation method, which could significantly reduce the amount of hospital visits. However, teledermatology is only used in a limited number of Dutch nursing homes in daily practice due to several factors. For the optimal implementation of teledermatological consultation there are some important logistical, legal and financial framework conditions. In conclusion, teledermatology has a lot to offer within the nursing home population and therefore teledermatology will hopefully be increasingly used in daily practice within the near future.
Label Included: 0

Title: Role of telehealth in diabetic foot ulcer management - A systematic review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To review the use of telehealth in subjects with diabetic foot ulcer; evaluating its clinical outcomes, diagnostic accuracy, cost-effectiveness and behavioural perceptions.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
SETTING: Selected studies were conducted in Australia, USA, the Netherlands, Denmark, Poland and UK.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 948 identified studies were evaluated against the inclusion criteria. Eleven eligible studies were included for review. Patients with diabetic foot ulcer had to have telehealth guided management.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Telehealth systems were evaluated against at least one of the following: clinical implications on ulcer healing and disease prognosis; diagnostic accuracy; cost-effectiveness; behavioural perceptions among health professionals or patients.
RESULT: Eleven eligible studies were included for review. Studies that evaluated telehealth against clinical outcomes were underpowered by study design, sample sizes and short duration follow-up. Telehealth systems demonstrated good intra- and inter-observer reproducibility, high diagnostic accuracy and agreement with live assessments. Authors rationalised the cost-effectiveness of their respective telehealth systems, but could not support this with long-term cost analysis. Both patient and health professionals responded positively towards telehealth in surveys and face-to-face interviews.
CONCLUSION: Telehealth yields high diagnostic accuracy, reproducibility and positive behavioural perceptions. However, it is not clear if telehealth use in diabetic foot management has favourable clinical and economic outcomes. More long-term prospective controlled trials on larger populations are needed to further characterise our findings.
Label Included: 0

Title: Healthcare utilization and cost of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis management in Thailand.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN) are life-threatening dermatologic conditions. Although, the incidence of SJS/TEN in Thailand is high, information on cost of care for SJS/TEN is limited. This study aims to estimate healthcare resource utilization and cost of SJS/TEN in Thailand, using hospital perspective.
METHODS: A retrospective study using an electronic health database from a university-affiliated hospital in Thailand was undertaken. Patients admitted with SJS/TEN from 2002 to 2007 were included. Direct medical cost was estimated by the cost-to-charge ratio. Cost was converted to 2013 value by consumer price index, and converted to $US using 31 Baht/ 1 $US. The healthcare resource utilization was also estimated.
RESULTS: A total of 157 patients were included with average age of 45.3±23.0 years. About 146 patients (93.0%) were diagnosed as SJS and the remaining (7.0%) were diagnosed as TEN. Most of the patients (83.4%) were treated with systemic corticosteroids. Overall, mortality rate was 8.3%, while the average length of stay (LOS) was 10.1±13.2 days. The average cost of managing SJS/TEN for all patients was $1,064±$2,558. The average cost for SJS patients was $1,019±$2,601 while that for TEN patients was $1,660±$1,887.
CONCLUSIONS: Healthcare resource utilization and cost of care for SJS/TEN in Thailand were tremendous. The findings are important for policy makers to allocate healthcare resources and develop strategies to prevent SJS/TEN which could decrease length of stay and cost of care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of School-Based Eye Examinations in Preschoolers Referred for Follow-up From Visual Screening.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Many preschool visual screening programs incorporate school-based comprehensive examinations, but the follow-up rates and cost-effectiveness of this approach are not well studied.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the follow-up rates and cost-effectiveness of referral to community-based eye care professionals vs to a mobile eye examination unit (mobile follow-up) among preschool children with failed visual screening results.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This retrospective cohort cost-effectiveness study with decision analytic modeling and probabilistic sensitivity analysis included 3429 children in 37 public preschools in San Francisco, California, who underwent visual chart screening during the 2009-2012 academic years and 1524 children in the same schools who underwent autorefraction screening during the 2012-2013 academic year. One hundred seventy-five children who underwent visual chart screening were referred for community-based comprehensive eye examinations; 204 who underwent autorefractive screening were referred for preschool-based mobile follow-up. Data were collected from October 1, 2009, to May 29, 2013, and analyzed from June 30, 2013, to January 16, 2016.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Cost-effectiveness of community-based vs mobile follow-up standardized for referral method.
RESULTS: Of the 175 children referred for community-based follow-up (91 boys [52.0%]; 84 girls [48.0%]; mean [SD] age, 3.8 [0.7] years), 104 attended (59.4%). Of 204 children referred for mobile follow-up (89 boys [43.6%]; 115 girls [56.4%]; mean [SD] age, 4.1 [0.6] years), 112 attended (54.9%). Costs per case detected were $664 and $776, respectively. In univariate analysis, mobile follow-up was equally cost-effective if it increased the follow-up rate to 73% or if its costs were reduced by at least 27%. In multivariate analysis with Monte Carlo simulation, community-based follow-up was more cost-effective than mobile follow-up in 88% of simulated cases and had typical savings of $112 (95% CI, -$77 to $368) per case detected.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Community-based eye care professionals may provide more cost-effective care than a mobile eye examination unit visiting the preschool among children with failed preschool-based visual screening.
Label Included: 0

Title: Electronic consultation systems: worldwide prevalence and their impact on patient care-a systematic review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many health organizations are exploring the potential of electronic consultation (eConsult) services to address excessive wait times for specialist care.
OBJECTIVE: To understand the effectiveness, population impact and costs associated with implementation of eConsult services.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review using a narrative synthesis approach. We searched Medline and Embase from inception to August 2014 (English/French). Included studies focused on communication between primary care providers and specialist physicians through an asynchronous, directed communication over a secure electronic medium. We assessed study quality with a modified version of the Effective Public Health Practice Project Quality Assessment Tool for Quantitative Studies. We synthesized the results using the Triple Aim framework.
RESULTS: A total of 36 studies were included. Most were set in the USA and focused on single-specialty services (most commonly dermatology). Population health outcomes included patient populations, adoption/utilization and provider attitudes. Providers cited timely advice from specialists, good medical care, confirmation of diagnoses and educational benefits. No clinical outcomes were reported. Patient experience of care was generally positive, with quick specialist response times (4.6 hours to 3.9 days), avoided referrals (12-84%) and satisfaction ranging from 78% to 93%. System costs were reported in only seven studies using different outcome measures and settings, limiting comparability.
CONCLUSION: Though eConsult systems are highly acceptable for patients and providers and deliver improved access to specialist advice, gaps remain regarding eConsult's impact on population health and system costs. To achieve optimized health system performance, eConsult services must include specialty services as determined by community needs and further explore cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of hypertension on mortality and cardiovascular disease burden in patients with cardiovascular risk factors from a general practice setting: the ESCARVAL-risk study.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To estimate the attributable risk associated to hypertension for all-cause mortality and cardiovascular hospitalization endpoints in a prospective study of patients with at least one cardiovascular risk factors participating in the Estudio Cardiovascular Valencia-risk project, we also evaluated the attributable risk associated with other risk factors and risk factor clustering.
METHODS: Prospective electronic health recording-based study in a Mediterranean population that included 52 007 cardiovascular disease-free men and women aged 30 years or older (mean age 62.6 year) with hypertension (79.0%), diabetes mellitus (37.3%), or dyslipidemia (88.2%), who underwent routine health examinations. All-cause mortality and hospitalization records for coronary heart disease (CHD) or stroke were collected.
RESULTS: During an average follow-up time of 3.2 years, 928 deaths and 1682 and 1529 hospitalizations for CHD and stroke, respectively, were recorded. In both men and women, hypertension significantly increased the multiadjusted rates of death and CHD and stroke hospitalizations. Hypertension was associated with a substantial amount of avoidable deaths both in men and women, population attributable risks were 41.81 (95% confidence interval 28.02, 53.24)% and 37.84 (5.74, 61.51)%, respectively. Similarly, the population attributable risk of hospitalization for CHD and stroke associated to hypertension was among the highest in both the sexes as compared with the impact of the other main cardiovascular risk factors. Increasing cardiovascular risk factors clustering was associated with increasing burden of disease.
CONCLUSION: Our results highlight the relevance of hypertension as main risk factor for mortality and cardiovascular events in a real-life setting. Although our data support the ongoing need of cardiovascular risk factors prevention, intensified actions for primary prevention of hypertension show potential to largely reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of Store-and-Forward Teledermatology: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Teledermatology is a topical clinical approach being tested in Australia and elsewhere. With most dermatologists residing in metropolitan areas, teledermatology provides an apparent low-cost and convenient means of access for individuals living outside these areas. It is important that any proposed new addition to a health care system is assessed on the grounds of economic cost and effectiveness.
OBJECTIVE: To summarize and evaluate the current economic evidence comparing store-and-forward teledermatology (S&FTD) with conventional face-to-face care.
EVIDENCE REVIEW: Search terms with appropriate amendments were used to identify S&FTD articles that included economic analysis. Six databases were searched, and title, abstract and full-text reviews were conducted by 2 researchers. References of all unique returned articles were searched by hand. The Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist was used to evaluate quality of the included articles.
FINDINGS: Eleven articles were selected for inclusion, including 1 cost analysis, 4 cost-minimization analyses, 4 cost-effectiveness analyses, and 2 cost-utility analyses. CHEERS scores ranged from 7 to 21 out of a possible 24 points, with a median score of 17.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Current evidence is sparse but suggests that S&FTD can be cost-effective. It appears to be cost-effective when used as a triage mechanism to reduce face-to-face appointment requirements. The cost-effectiveness of S&FTD increases when patients are required to travel farther distances to access dermatology services. Further economic research is required for the emerging S&FTD, which uses dermoscopes in combination with smartphone applications, as well as regarding the possibility and consequences of patients self-capturing and transmitting images.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telemedicine and M-Health in Hypertension Management: Technologies, Applications and Clinical Evidence.
Abstract: Electronic processes and communication technologies are more and more often employed to provide healthcare services to caregivers and their patients. Such solutions are currently referred as e-health, the most popular and widely distributed being those based on telemedicine and mobile health (m-health). A specific application of telemedicine for hypertension management is blood pressure telemonitoring (BPT), which allows remote data transmission of BP and additional information on patients' health status from their living site or from a community setting to the doctor's office or the hospital. Several randomized studies have documented a significant BP reduction with regular BPT compared to usual care, particularly in high risk hypertensive patients. Additional benefits are observed when BPT is offered under the supervision of a team of healthcare professionals, including a community pharmacist. BPT may also be provided in the context of m-health solutions, which commonly include wireless diagnostic and clinical decision support tools. M-health has the potential to promote patient's self-management, as a complement to the doctor's intervention, and encourage greater participation in medical decision making. Current statistics show that half of smartphone owners gather health information through their phone and 19 % use a health app. In case of hypertensive patients the most popular apps are those with tracking function, including BPT. Thus, e-health, and in particular BPT and m-health, are progressively gaining a key role in the management of hypertensive patients, having the potential to improve the quality of the delivered care and to more effectively prevent cardiovascular consequences of high BP.
Label Included: 0

Title: Feasibility and success of cell-phone assisted remote observation of medication adherence (CAROMA) in clinical trials.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Medication nonadherence is a serious issue in clinical trials, especially in studies of substance abuse disorders. Measuring and confirming adherence is critical to ensuring that collected data is accurate and interpretable. This study evaluated the feasibility and success of a smartphone-based approach (Cellphone Assisted Remote Observation of Medication Adherence [CAROMA]) to visually confirm medication adherence in a clinical trial.
METHOD: Medication adherence was confirmed visually via smartphones provided to participants in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial for cannabis dependence. Every morning, subjects (n=20) were video-called by staff who observed consumption of study medication. Adherence was also assessed with weekly face-to-face visits, pill counts and plasma drug levels. Subjects were paid for completing daily CAROMA visits, and for returning the smartphone at study completion.
RESULTS: CAROMA confirmed 96.04% adherence to medication. Concordance between expected and actual remaining study medication counted at weekly study visits was 87.69%. Subjects assigned to active study medication had detectable plasma drug levels, while those assigned to placebo did not. CAROMA was estimated to cost approximately $100 per subject per week - a total of $300.24 per subject for the 3-week outpatient portion of the trial.
CONCLUSION: This pilot study demonstrates the feasibility, success and cost-effectiveness of CAROMA to facilitate and confirm medication adherence in a clinical trial. Preliminary findings support larger and longer studies, and possibly applying this approach to clinical care - especially in other populations with high rates of medication nonadherence.
Label Included: 0

Title: Early Detection, Referral, Investigation, and Diagnosis of Children with Growth Disorders.
Abstract: Early diagnosis is a key objective in clinical medicine, and early detection of pathological short stature has tangible benefits for growth prognosis and the well-being of the child. Despite late diagnosis being common in growth disorders, programmes of height screening in primary care are not universal in developed countries and may be random or non-existent. A notable exception is automated growth monitoring in Finland, where an algorithm to detect abnormal growth is integrated into children's electronic health records, resulting in increased diagnoses of pathological short stature. Evidence-based anthropometric criteria for referral of short stature to secondary or tertiary care are now published, due largely to excellent studies in the Netherlands. Following referral of the short child, the protocol for laboratory investigations remains somewhat controversial because in healthy children their diagnostic yield can be too low for cost-effectiveness. However, outside of tertiary academic paediatric endocrinology centres, baseline screening tests are considered worthwhile and may speed up diagnosis and treatment. Finally, auxological cut-offs cannot replace good clinical practice, and the understanding that early and effective management depends on commitment to a diagnosis and individualisation of therapy in the short child cannot be overemphasised.
Label Included: 0

Title: Championing Effectiveness Before Cost-Effectiveness.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost and clinical effectiveness analysis among moist wound healing dressings versus traditional methods in home care patients with pressure ulcers.
Abstract: The aim of the study was a cost and clinical effectiveness analysis between moist wound healing dressings and gauze in a homecare set up for the treatment of stage III and IV pressure ulcers up to complete healing. In addition, we assessed the overall economic burden on the Healthcare System. Treatment method for each patient was chosen randomly by using sealed opaque envelopes. The authors monitored the healing progress and recorded treatment costs without interfering with the treatment process. The healing progress was estimated by using surface measurement transparent films. To estimate treatment costs, the authors took into account labor costs, cost of dressings, as well the cost of other materials such as cleansing gauzes, normal saline, syringes, examination gloves, antiseptics and adhesive tape. The patient group under treatment with moist wound healing dressings consisted of 27 men and 20 women aged 75.1 ± 8,6 and had an average ulcer surface of 43.5 ± 30.70 cm(2) ; the patient group under treatment with gauze comprised 25 men and 23 women aged 77.02 ± 8.02 and had an average ulcer surface 41.52 ± 29.41 cm(2) (p = 0.25, 95% CI, Student's t test). The average healing time for the moist wound healing dressings group' was 85.56 ± 52.09 days, while 121.4 ± 52.21 days for the "gauze group" (p = 0.0001, 95% CI, Student's t test). The dressing change frequency per patient was reduced in the "moist wound healing dressings group," 49.5 ± 29.61, compared with a dressing change frequency per patient of 222.6 ± 101.86 for the "gauze group" (p = 0.0001, 95% CI, Student's t test). The use of moist wound healing dressings had a lower total treatment cost of 1,351 € per patient compared with, the use of gauzes (3,888 €).
Label Included: 0

Title: eHealth and quality in health care: implementation time.
Abstract: The use of information and communication technologies in health and health care could improve healthcare quality in many ways. Today's evidence base demonstrates the (cost-)effectiveness of online education, self-management support and tele-monitoring in several domains of health and care. While new results gradually provide more evidence for eHealth's impact on quality issues, now is the time to come to grips with implementation issues. Documented drawbacks such as low acceptance, low adoption or low adherence need our attention today to make the most of eHealth' potential. Improvement science is beginning to deliver the tools to address these persistent behavioural and cultural issues. The ceHRes Roadmap, for instance, is a plural and pragmatic approach that includes users' needs. It is now imperative to improve our implementation strategies in order to scale up eHealth technologies. This will accelerate the much needed transformation of our healthcare systems and sustain access, affordability and quality for all in the near future.
Label Included: 0

Title: Risks and benefits of psychotropic medication in pregnancy: cohort studies based on UK electronic primary care health records.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Although many women treated with psychotropic medication become pregnant, no psychotropic medication has been licensed for use in pregnancy. This leaves women and their health-care professionals in a treatment dilemma, as they need to balance the health of the woman with that of the unborn child. The aim of this project was to investigate the risks and benefits of psychotropic medication in women treated for psychosis who become pregnant.
OBJECTIVE(S): (1) To provide a descriptive account of psychotropic medication prescribed before pregnancy, during pregnancy and up to 15 months after delivery in UK primary care from 1995 to 2012; (2) to identify risk factors predictive of discontinuation and restarting of lithium (multiple manufacturers), anticonvulsant mood stabilisers and antipsychotic medication; (3) to examine the extent to which pregnancy is a determinant for discontinuation of psychotropic medication; (4) to examine prevalence of records suggestive of adverse mental health, deterioration or relapse 18 months before and during pregnancy, and up to 15 months after delivery; and (5) to estimate absolute and relative risks of adverse maternal and child outcomes of psychotropic treatment in pregnancy.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort studies.
SETTING: Primary care.
PARTICIPANTS: Women treated for psychosis who became pregnant, and their children.
INTERVENTIONS: Treatment with antipsychotics, lithium or anticonvulsant mood stabilisers.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Discontinuation and restarting of treatment; worsening of mental health; acute pre-eclampsia/gestational hypertension; gestational diabetes; caesarean section; perinatal death; major congenital malformations; poor birth outcome (low birthweight, preterm birth, small for gestational age, low Apgar score); transient poor birth outcomes (tremor, agitation, breathing and muscle tone problems); and neurodevelopmental and behavioural disorders.
DATA SOURCES: Clinical Practice Research Datalink database and The Health Improvement Network primary care database.
RESULTS: Prescribing of psychotropic medication was relatively constant before pregnancy, decreased sharply in early pregnancy and peaked after delivery. Antipsychotic and anticonvulsant treatment increased over the study period. The recording of markers of worsening mental health peaked after delivery. Pregnancy was a strong determinant for discontinuation of psychotropic medication. However, between 40% and 76% of women who discontinued psychotropic medication before or in early pregnancy restarted treatment by 15 months after delivery. The risk of major congenital malformations, and neurodevelopmental and behavioural outcomes in valproate (multiple manufacturers) users was twice that in users of other anticonvulsants. The risks of adverse maternal and child outcomes in women who continued antipsychotic use in pregnancy were not greater than in those who discontinued treatment before pregnancy.
LIMITATIONS: A few women would have received parts of their care outside primary care, which may not be captured in this analysis. Likewise, the analyses were based on prescribing data, which may differ from usage.
CONCLUSIONS: Psychotropic medication is prescribed before, during and after pregnancy. Many women discontinue treatment before or during early pregnancy and then restart again in late pregnancy or after delivery. Our results support previous associations between valproate and adverse child outcomes but we found no evidence of such an association for antipsychotics.
FUTURE WORK: Future research should focus on (1) curtailing the use of sodium valproate; (2) estimating the benefits of psychotropic drug use in pregnancy; and (3) investigating the risks associated with lifestyle choices that are more prevalent among women using psychotropic drugs.
FUNDING DETAILS: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Label Included: 0

Title: Acute exacerbation of COPD.
Abstract: The literature of acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is fast expanding. This review focuses on several aspects of acute exacerbation of COPD (AECOPD) including epidemiology, diagnosis and management. COPD poses a major health and economic burden in the Asia-Pacific region, as it does worldwide. Triggering factors of AECOPD include infectious (bacteria and viruses) and environmental (air pollution and meteorological effect) factors. Disruption in the dynamic balance between the 'pathogens' (viral and bacterial) and the normal bacterial communities that constitute the lung microbiome likely contributes to the risk of exacerbations. The diagnostic approach to AECOPD varies based on the clinical setting and severity of the exacerbation. After history and examination, a number of investigations may be useful, including oximetry, sputum culture, chest X-ray and blood tests for inflammatory markers. Arterial blood gases should be considered in severe exacerbations, to characterize respiratory failure. Depending on the severity, the acute management of AECOPD involves use of bronchodilators, steroids, antibiotics, oxygen and noninvasive ventilation. Hospitalization may be required, for severe exacerbations. Nonpharmacological interventions including disease-specific self-management, pulmonary rehabilitation, early medical follow-up, home visits by respiratory health workers, integrated programmes and telehealth-assisted hospital at home have been studied during hospitalization and shortly after discharge in patients who have had a recent AECOPD. Pharmacological approaches to reducing risk of future exacerbations include long-acting bronchodilators, inhaled steroids, mucolytics, vaccinations and long-term macrolides. Further studies are needed to assess the cost-effectiveness of these interventions in preventing COPD exacerbations.
Label Included: 0

Title: Health economic evaluation of Gd-EOB-DTPA MRI vs ECCM-MRI and multi-detector computed tomography in patients with suspected hepatocellular carcinoma in Thailand and South Korea.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The effectiveness of treatment decisions and economic outcomes of using gadolinium ethoxybenzyl diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (Gd-EOB-DTPA-MRI) were compared with extracellular contrast media-enhanced MRI (ECCM-MRI) and multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT) as initial procedures in patients with suspected hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in South Korea and Thailand.
METHODS: A decision-tree model simulated the clinical pathway for patients with suspected HCC from the first imaging procedure to a confirmed treatment decision. Input data (probabilities and resource consumptions) were estimated and validated by clinical experts. Costs for diagnostic alternatives and related treatment options were derived from published sources, taking into account both payer's and hospital's perspectives.
RESULTS: All experts from Korea and Thailand agreed that Gd-EOB-DTPA-MRI yields the highest diagnostic certainty and minimizes the need for additional confirmatory diagnostic procedures in HCC. In Korea, from the payer's perspective, total cost was USD $3087/patient to reach a confirmed treatment decision using Gd-EOB-DTPA-MRI (vs $3205/patient for MDCT and $3403/patient for ECCM-MRI). From the hospital's perspective, Gd-EOB-DTPA-MRI incurred the lowest cost ($2289/patient vs $2320/patient and $2528/patient, respectively). In Thailand, Gd-EOB-DTPA-MRI was the least costly alternative for the payer ($702/patient vs $931/patient for MDCT and $873/patient for ECCM-MRI). From the hospital's perspective, costs were $1106/patient, $1178/patient, and $1087/patient for Gd-EOB-DTPA-MRI, MDCT, and ECCM-MRI, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Gd-EOB-DTPA-MRI as an initial imaging procedure in patients with suspected HCC provides better diagnostic certainty and relevant statutory health insurance cost savings in Thailand and Korea, compared with ECCM-MRI and MDCT.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving Adherence to Cardiovascular Therapies: An Economic Evaluation of a Randomized Pragmatic Trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Preplanned economic analysis of a pragmatic trial using electronic-medical-record-linked interactive voice recognition (IVR) reminders for enhancing adherence to cardiovascular medications (i.e., statins, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors [ACEIs], and angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]).
METHODS: Three groups, usual care (UC), IVR, and IVR plus educational materials (IVR+), with 21,752 suboptimally adherent patients underwent follow-up for 9.6 months on average. Costs to implement and deliver the intervention (from a payer perspective) were tracked during the trial. Medical care costs and outcomes were ascertained using electronic medical records.
RESULTS: Per-patient intervention costs ranged from $9 to $17 for IVR and from $36 to $47 for IVR+. For ACEI/ARB, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for each percent adherence increase was about 3 times higher with IVR+ than with IVR ($6 and $16 for IVR and IVR+, respectively). For statins, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for each percent adherence increase was about 7 times higher with IVR+ than with IVR ($6 and $43 for IVR and IVR+, respectively). Considering potential cost offsets from reduced cardiovascular events, the probability of breakeven was the highest for UC, but the IVR-based interventions had a higher probability of breakeven for subgroups with a baseline low-density lipoprotein (LDL) level of more than 100 mg/dl and those with two or more calls.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that the use of an automated voice messaging system to promote adherence to ACEIs/ARBs and statins may be cost-effective, depending on a decision maker's willingness to pay for unit increase in adherence. When considering changes in LDL level and downstream medical care offsets, UC is the optimal strategy for the general population. However, IVR-based interventions may be the optimal choice for those with elevated LDL values at baseline.
Label Included: 0

Title: Optimizing annotation resources for natural language de-identification via a game theoretic framework.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Electronic medical records (EMRs) are increasingly repurposed for activities beyond clinical care, such as to support translational research and public policy analysis. To mitigate privacy risks, healthcare organizations (HCOs) aim to remove potentially identifying patient information. A substantial quantity of EMR data is in natural language form and there are concerns that automated tools for detecting identifiers are imperfect and leak information that can be exploited by ill-intentioned data recipients. Thus, HCOs have been encouraged to invest as much effort as possible to find and detect potential identifiers, but such a strategy assumes the recipients are sufficiently incentivized and capable of exploiting leaked identifiers. In practice, such an assumption may not hold true and HCOs may overinvest in de-identification technology. The goal of this study is to design a natural language de-identification framework, rooted in game theory, which enables an HCO to optimize their investments given the expected capabilities of an adversarial recipient.
METHODS: We introduce a Stackelberg game to balance risk and utility in natural language de-identification. This game represents a cost-benefit model that enables an HCO with a fixed budget to minimize their investment in the de-identification process. We evaluate this model by assessing the overall payoff to the HCO and the adversary using 2100 clinical notes from Vanderbilt University Medical Center. We simulate several policy alternatives using a range of parameters, including the cost of training a de-identification model and the loss in data utility due to the removal of terms that are not identifiers. In addition, we compare policy options where, when an attacker is fined for misuse, a monetary penalty is paid to the publishing HCO as opposed to a third party (e.g., a federal regulator).
RESULTS: Our results show that when an HCO is forced to exhaust a limited budget (set to $2000 in the study), the precision and recall of the de-identification of the HCO are 0.86 and 0.8, respectively. A game-based approach enables a more refined cost-benefit tradeoff, improving both privacy and utility for the HCO. For example, our investigation shows that it is possible for an HCO to release the data without spending all their budget on de-identification and still deter the attacker, with a precision of 0.77 and a recall of 0.61 for the de-identification. There also exist scenarios in which the model indicates an HCO should not release any data because the risk is too great. In addition, we find that the practice of paying fines back to a HCO (an artifact of suing for breach of contract), as opposed to a third party such as a federal regulator, can induce an elevated level of data sharing risk, where the HCO is incentivized to bait the attacker to elicit compensation.
CONCLUSIONS: A game theoretic framework can be applied in leading HCO's to optimized decision making in natural language de-identification investments before sharing EMR data.
Label Included: 0

Title: [How much, where and at what price].
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Can the provision of a home help service for the elderly population reduce the incidence of fall-related injuries? A quasi-experimental study of the community-level effects on hospital admissions in Swedish municipalities.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Fall-related injuries are a global public health problem, especially in elderly populations. The effect of an intervention aimed at reducing the risk of falls in the homes of community-dwelling elderly persons was evaluated. The intervention mainly involves the performance of complicated tasks and hazards assessment by a trained assessor, and has been adopted gradually over the last decade by 191 of 290 Swedish municipalities.
METHODS: A quasi-experimental design was used where intention-to-treat effect estimates were derived using panel regression analysis and a regression discontinuity (RD) design. The outcome measure was the incidence of fall-related hospitalisations in the treatment population, the age of which varied by municipality (≥65 years, ≥67 years, ≥70 years or ≥75 years).
RESULTS: We found no statistically significant reductions in injury incidence in the panel regression (IRR 1.01 (95% CI 0.98 to 1.05)) or RD (IRR 1.00 (95% CI 0.97 to 1.03)) analyses. The results are robust to several different model specifications, including segmented panel regression analysis with linear trend change and community fixed effects parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: It is unclear whether the absence of an effect is due to a low efficacy of the services provided, or a result of low adherence. Additional studies of the effects on other quality-of-life measures are recommended before conclusions are drawn regarding the cost-effectiveness of the provision of home help service programmes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Neurophysiological investigations for the diagnosis of non-epileptic attack disorder in neuropsychiatry services: from safety standards to improved effectiveness.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The discipline of clinical neuropsychiatry currently provides specialised services for a number of conditions that cross the traditional boundaries of neurology and psychiatry, including non-epileptic attack disorder. Neurophysiological investigations have an important role within neuropsychiatry services, with video-electroencephalography (EEG) telemetry being the gold standard investigation for the differential diagnosis between epileptic seizures and non-epileptic attacks. This article reviews existing evidence on best practices for neurophysiology investigations, with focus on safety measures for video-EEG telemetry.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic literature review using the PubMed database in order to identify the scientific literature on the best practices when using neurophysiological investigations in patients with suspected epileptic seizures or non-epileptic attacks.
RESULTS: Specific measures need to be implemented for video-EEG telemetry to be safely and effectively carried out by neuropsychiatry services. A confirmed diagnosis of non-epileptic attack disorder following video-EEG telemetry carried out within neuropsychiatry units has the inherent advantage of allowing diagnosis communication and implementation of treatment strategies in a timely fashion, potentially improving clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness significantly.
CONCLUSION: The identified recommendations set the stage for the development of standardised guidelines to enable neuropsychiatry services to implement streamlined and evidence-based care pathways.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-based rehabilitation interventions for adults living with HIV: a scoping review.
Abstract: Home-based rehabilitation (HBR) has been shown to improve the lives of people living with a wide range of chronic diseases in resource-rich settings. This may also be a particularly effective strategy in resource-poor settings, where access to institution-based rehabilitation is limited. This review aimed to summarise and discuss the evidence related to the effectiveness of home-based rehabilitation (HBR) interventions designed specifically for adults living with HIV. A scoping review methodology was employed, involving systematic search techniques and appraisal of appropriate evidence. English-language journal articles that assessed the quality of life or functional ability outcomes of HBR interventions for adults living with HIV were considered for this review. Out of an initial 1 135 publications retrieved from the search of databases, six articles met this review's inclusion criteria. While this review highlights the scarcity of empirical evidence related to HBR interventions for adults living with HIV, the findings of these six articles are that HBR is a safe management option that may confer a number of physical and psychological benefits for this population. Future research on HBR interventions should include a wider range of assessment measures, including cost-benefit analyses and specific tools designed to assess the functional ability and participation in activities of daily living of participants involved in these programmes. In particular, more research on HBR is required in resource-poor environments, such as sub-Saharan Africa where HIV is endemic, to assess whether this is a feasible strategy that is both effective and practical in the areas that may need it most.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-effectiveness of screening strategies to detect heart failure in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF), especially with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is common in older patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM), but often not recognized. Early HF detection in older T2DM patients may be worthwhile because treatment may be initiated in an early stage, with clear beneficial treatment in those with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), but without clear prognostic beneficial treatment in those with HFpEF. Because both types of HF may be uncovered in older T2DM, screening may improve health outcomes at acceptable costs. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of five screening strategies in patients with T2DM aged 60 years or over.
METHODS: We built a Markov model with a lifetime horizon based on the prognostic results from our screening study of 581 patients with T2DM, extended with evidence from literature. Cost-effectiveness was calculated from a Dutch healthcare perspective as additional costs (Euros) per additional quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. We performed probabilistic sensitivity analysis to assess robustness of these outcomes. Scenario analyses were performed to assess the influence of the availability of effective treatment of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.
RESULTS: For willingness to pay values in the range of €6050/QALY-€31,000/QALY for men and €6300/QALY-€42,000/QALY for women, screening-based checking the electronic medical record for patient characteristics and medical history plus the assessment of symptoms had the highest probability of being cost-effective. For higher willingness-to-pay values, direct echocardiography was the preferred screening strategy. Cost-effectiveness of all screening strategies improved with the increase in effectiveness of treatment for HFpEF.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for HF in older community-dwelling patients with T2DM is cost-effective at the commonly used willingness-to-pay threshold of €20.000/QALY by checking the electronic medical record for patient characteristics and medical history plus the assessment of symptoms. The simplicity of such a strategy makes it feasible for implementation in existing primary care diabetes management programs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cardiac rehabilitation referral and enrolment across an academic health sciences centre with eReferral and peer navigation: a randomised controlled pilot trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To describe (1) cardiac rehabilitation (CR) referral across cardiac units in a tertiary centre with eReferral; (2) characteristics associated with CR referral and enrolment and (3) the effects of peer navigation (PN) on referral and enrolment. This pilot was a 2 parallel-arm, randomised, single-blind trial with allocation concealment.
SETTING: 3 cardiac units (ie, interventional, general cardiology, and cardiac surgery) in 1 of 2 hospitals of a tertiary centre.
PARTICIPANTS: CR-eligible adult cardiac inpatients were randomised to PN or usual care. 94 (54.7%) patients consented, of which 46 (48.9%) were randomised to PN. Outcomes were ascertained in 76 (80.9%) participants.
INTERVENTION: The PN (1) visited participant at the bedside, (2) mailed a card to participant's home reminding about CR and (3) called participant 2 weeks postdischarge to discuss CR barriers.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome of enrolment was defined as participant attendance at a scheduled CR intake appointment (yes/no). The secondary outcome was referral. Blinded outcome assessment was conducted 12 weeks postdischarge, via CR chart extraction.
RESULTS: Those who received care on the cardiac surgery unit (77.9%) were more likely to be referred than those treated on the general cardiology (61.1%) or interventional unit (33.3%; p=0.04). Patients who had cardiac surgery, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia were significantly more likely, and those with congenital heart disease, cancer and a previous cardiac diagnosis were less likely to be referred. Participants referred to a site closer to home (76.2% of those referred) were more likely to enrol than those not (23.7%, p<0.05). PN had no effect on referral (77.6%, p=0.45) or enrolment (46.0%, p=0.24).
CONCLUSIONS: There is wide variability in CR referral, even within academic centres, and despite eReferral. Referral was quite high, and thus, PN did not improve CR utilisation. Results support triaging patients to the CR programme closest to their home.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02204449; Results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Prospective study on cost-effectiveness of home-based motor assessment in Parkinson's disease.
Abstract: Introduction Treatment adjustments in Parkinson's disease (PD) are in part dependent on motor assessments. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of home-based motor monitoring plus standard in-office visits versus in-office visits alone in patients with advanced PD. Methods The procedures consisted of a prospective, one-year follow-up, randomized, case-control study. A total of 40 patients with advanced PD were randomized into two groups: 20 patients underwent home-based motor monitoring by using wireless motion sensor technology, while the other 20 patients had in-office visits. Motor and non-motor symptom severities, quality of life, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and comorbidities were assessed every four months. Direct costs were assessed using a standardized questionnaire. Cost-effectiveness was assessed using the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Results Both groups of PD patients were largely comparable in their clinical and demographic variables at baseline; however, there were more participants using levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel in the home-based motor monitoring group. There was a trend for lower Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale functional status (UPDRS II) scores in the patients monitored at home compared to the standard clinical follow-up ( p = 0.06). However, UPDRS parts I, III, IV and quality-adjusted life-years scores were similar between both groups. Home-based motor monitoring was cost-effective in terms of improvement of functional status, motor severity, and motor complications (UPDRS II, III; IV subscales), with an ICER/UPDRS ranging from €126.72 to €701.31, respectively. Discussion Home-based motor monitoring is a tool which collects cost-effective clinical information and helps augment health care for patients with advanced PD.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of Capsaicin 8% Patch Compared with Pregabalin for the Treatment of Patients with Peripheral Neuropathic Pain in Scotland.
Abstract: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of capsaicin 8% patch (QUTENZA™) versus pregabalin in patients with PNP from the perspective of the National Health Service (NHS) and Personal and Social Services in Scotland, UK. A decision-tree cost-effectiveness model was developed for non-diabetic patients with peripheral neuropathic pain (PNP) who were pregabalin-naïve and had not achieved adequate pain relief or tolerated conventional first- or second-line treatments. Patients entering the model received either a single application of capsaicin 8% patch or titrated daily dosing with pregabalin; after 8 weeks patients were classified as responders, non-responders, or were assumed to discontinue treatment due to intolerable adverse events. Responders continued to receive baseline treatment at intervals observed in clinical practice. Non-responders and those who discontinued treatment were assumed to receive last-line therapy (duloxetine). The base-case time horizon was 2 years. Model inputs for effectiveness, discontinuations and health-state utilities were taken from a head-to-head non-inferiority study (ELEVATE, NCT01713426). Other inputs were obtained from published sources or clinical expert opinion. Costs were expressed in GBP 2013/14. Results were presented as incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER), i.e. cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Model assumptions were tested with scenario analyses. Parameter uncertainty was tested using one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Compared with dose-optimized pregabalin, capsaicin 8% patch was the dominant treatment strategy (total cost difference, -£11; total QALY gain, 0.049). Capsaicin 8% patch was also the dominant treatment strategy versus pregabalin in 6 out of 7 scenario analyses. The model was most sensitive to variation in time to capsaicin 8% patch retreatment (maximum ICER, £7,951/QALY at lower-bound 95% confidence interval). At a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000/QALY, the probability of capsaicin 8% patch being cost-effective versus pregabalin was 97%. Capsaicin 8% patch is a cost-effective treatment option compared with dose-optimized pregabalin in patients with PNP who have failed one or more previous systemic treatments.
Label Included: 0

Title: Failure to review STAT clinical laboratory requests and its economical impact.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Failure to follow-up laboratory test results has been described as one of the major processes contributing to unsafe patient care. Currently, most of the laboratories do not know with certainty not only their rate of missed (or unreviewed) requests but the economical cost and impact that this issue implies. The aim of our study was to measure that rate and calculate the resulting costs.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In January 2015, we checked in our Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) for every emergency request from 1(st) July 2011 to 30(th) June 2014, if they had been reviewed by any allowed user or not. 319,064 requests were ordered during that period of time. Results were expressed as "ordered requests", "missed requests" and its percentage. Additionally, total cost of missed requests was calculated in euros (€). "Non-productive days" were theorised (as the days producing requests that were not reviewed) based on these results.
RESULTS: 7924 requests (2.5%) were never reviewed by clinicians. This represented a total cost of 203,039 € and 27 "non-productive" days in three years. Significant differences between inpatients, outpatients and emergency department as well as different emergencies units were found after application of statistical analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In terms of resources, never reviewed or missed requests appear to be a not negligible problem for the clinical laboratory management. Electronic result delivery, with electronic endorsement to indicate follow-up of requests along with better systems of electronic requesting should be investigated as a way of improving patient outcomes and save unnecessary expenses.
Label Included: 0

Title: The cost of applying to dermatology residency: 2014 data estimates.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Epidemiology of fractures in the United Kingdom 1988-2012: Variation with age, sex, geography, ethnicity and socioeconomic status.
Abstract: UNLABELLED: Rates of fracture worldwide are changing. Using the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD), age, and gender, geographical, ethnic and socioeconomic trends in fracture rates across the United Kingdom were studied over a 24-year period 1988-2012. Previously observed patterns in fracture incidence by age and fracture site were evident. New data on the influence of geographic location, ethnic group and socioeconomic status were obtained.
INTRODUCTION: With secular changes in age- and sex-specific fracture incidence observed in many populations, and global shifts towards an elderly demography, it is vital for health care planners to have an accurate understanding of fracture incidence nationally. We aimed to present up to date fracture incidence data in the UK, stratified by age, sex, geographic location, ethnicity and socioeconomic status.
METHODS: The Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) contains anonymised electronic health records for approximately 6.9% of the UK population. Information comes from General Practitioners, and covers 11.3 million people from 674 practices across the UK, demonstrated to be representative of the national population. The study population consisted of all permanently registered individuals aged ≥18years. Validated data on fracture incidence were obtained from their medical records, as was information on socioeconomic deprivation, ethnicity and geographic location. Age- and sex-specific fracture incidence rates were calculated.
RESULTS: Fracture incidence rates by age and sex were comparable to those documented in previous studies and demonstrated a bimodal distribution. Substantial geographic heterogeneity in age- and sex adjusted fracture incidence was observed, with rates in Scotland almost 50% greater than those in London and South East England. Lowest rates of fracture were observed in black individuals of both sexes; rates of fragility fracture in white women were 4.7 times greater than in black women. Strong associations between deprivation and fracture risk were observed in hip fracture in men, with a relative risk of 1.3 (95% CI 1.21-1.41) in Index of Multiple Deprivation category 5 (representing the most deprived) compared to category 1.
CONCLUSIONS: This study presents robust estimates of fracture incidence across the UK, which will aid decisions regarding allocation of healthcare provision to populations of greatest need. It will also assist the implementation and design of strategies to reduce fracture incidence and its personal and financial impact on individuals and health services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Home-based rehabilitation of severely malnourished children using indigenous high-density diet.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy, cost-effectiveness and acceptability of a 'high-density diet made from indigenous ingredients.
METHODS: The retrospective study was carried out from September 2009 to May 2010 in District Sanghar, Sindh, Pakistan. A field office was established and staff was recruited and trained. A baseline survey was done to screen for malnourished children aged 6-23 months using mid-upper arm circumference, for which a cut-off value of 115mm was adopted. The screened children with a weight-for-height z score <-3 were registered and were supplied the high-density diet and micronutrients. Their mothers were counselled on infant and young child feeding practices.
RESULTS: The mean age of 123 children in the study was 15.5±8.5 months, and mean weight was 5.91±1.18kg. Overall, 85(69%) children attained the target weight in a mean duration of 5.08±3.2 months. Besides, 29(23.5%) children were gaining weight, but had not achieved the target by the end of the study. The mean rate of weight-gain of children who recovered was 3.30±3.59 g/kg/day. No significant adverse effects were noted. There was no documented refusal of the therapeutic supplement. The net cost of rehabilitating a child was $34.31.
CONCLUSIONS: The high-density diet was reasonably efficacious in improving the nutritional status of severely malnourished children.
Label Included: 0

Title: Addressing challenges for sustainable healthcare in Central and Eastern Europe.
Abstract: All European countries face increasing challenges in the provision of equitable and comprehensive healthcare for their citizens in view of a number of factors. These include changing demographics and the continual launch of new premium priced medicines. The challenges are even more difficult among Central and Eastern European healthcare systems. Consequently, there is a need for countries to learn from each other to help address some of these challenges and to maintain sustainable systems. This was the basis of the 2-day conference, The Fifth International Conference: Challenges for Efficient Healthcare in Central and Eastern Europe, 9-10 October 2015, Belgrade, Serbia.
Label Included: 0

Title: Management of diabolical diabetes mellitus and periodontitis nexus: Are we doing enough?
Abstract: Periodontitis is the commonest oral disease affecting population worldwide. This disease is notorious for the devastation of tooth supporting structures, ensuing in the loss of dentition. The etiology for this disease is bacterial biofilm, which accumulates on the teeth as dental plaque. In addition to the biofilm microorganisms, other factors such as environmental, systemic and genetic are also responsible in progression of periodontitis. Diabetes mellitus (DM) is metabolic disorder which has an impact on the global health. DM plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of periodontitis. Periodontitis is declared as the "sixth" major complication of DM. Evidence based literature has depicted an enhanced incidence and severity of periodontitis in subjects with DM. A "two way" relationship has been purported between periodontitis and DM. Mutual management of both conditions is necessary. Periodontal therapy (PT) may assist to diminish the progression of DM and improve glycemic control. Various advanced technological facilities may be utilized for the purpose of patient education and disease management. The present paper clarifies the etio-pathogenesis of periodontitis, establishing it as a complication of DM and elaborating the various mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis. The role of PT in amelioration of DM and application of digital communication will be discussed. Overall, it is judicious to create an increased patient cognizance of the periodontitis-DM relationship. Conjunctive efforts must be undertaken by the medical and oral health care professionals for the management of periodontitis affected DM patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: CATheter Infections in CHildren (CATCH): a randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation comparing impregnated and standard central venous catheters in children.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Impregnated central venous catheters (CVCs) are recommended for adults to reduce bloodstream infection (BSI) but not for children.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of impregnated compared with standard CVCs for reducing BSI in children admitted for intensive care.
DESIGN: Multicentre randomised controlled trial, cost-effectiveness analysis from a NHS perspective and a generalisability analysis and cost impact analysis.
SETTING: 14 English paediatric intensive care units (PICUs) in England.
PARTICIPANTS: Children aged < 16 years admitted to a PICU and expected to require a CVC for ≥ 3 days.
INTERVENTIONS: Heparin-bonded, antibiotic-impregnated (rifampicin and minocycline) or standard polyurethane CVCs, allocated randomly (1 : 1 : 1). The intervention was blinded to all but inserting clinicians.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Time to first BSI sampled between 48 hours after randomisation and 48 hours after CVC removal. The following data were used in the trial: trial case report forms; hospital administrative data for 6 months pre and post randomisation; and national-linked PICU audit and laboratory data.
RESULTS: In total, 1859 children were randomised, of whom 501 were randomised prospectively and 1358 were randomised as an emergency; of these, 984 subsequently provided deferred consent for follow-up. Clinical effectiveness - BSIs occurred in 3.59% (18/502) of children randomised to standard CVCs, 1.44% (7/486) of children randomised to antibiotic CVCs and 3.42% (17/497) of children randomised to heparin CVCs. Primary analyses comparing impregnated (antibiotic and heparin CVCs) with standard CVCs showed no effect of impregnated CVCs [hazard ratio (HR) 0.71, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.37 to 1.34]. Secondary analyses showed that antibiotic CVCs were superior to standard CVCs (HR 0.43, 95% CI 0.20 to 0.96) but heparin CVCs were not (HR 1.04, 95% CI 0.53 to 2.03). Time to thrombosis, mortality by 30 days and minocycline/rifampicin resistance did not differ by CVC. Cost-effectiveness - heparin CVCs were not clinically effective and therefore were not cost-effective. The incremental cost of antibiotic CVCs compared with standard CVCs over a 6-month time horizon was £1160 (95% CI -£4743 to £6962), with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £54,057 per BSI avoided. There was considerable uncertainty in costs: antibiotic CVCs had a probability of 0.35 of being dominant. Based on index hospital stay costs only, antibiotic CVCs were associated with a saving of £97,543 per BSI averted. The estimated value of health-care resources associated with each BSI was £10,975 (95% CI -£2801 to £24,751). Generalisability and cost-impact - the baseline risk of BSI in 2012 for PICUs in England was 4.58 (95% CI 4.42 to 4.74) per 1000 bed-days. An estimated 232 BSIs could have been averted in 2012 using antibiotic CVCs. The additional cost of purchasing antibiotic CVCs for all children who require them (£36 per CVC) would be less than the value of resources associated with managing BSIs in PICUs with standard BSI rates of > 1.2 per 1000 CVC-days.
CONCLUSIONS: The primary outcome did not differ between impregnated and standard CVCs. However, antibiotic-impregnated CVCs significantly reduced the risk of BSI compared with standard and heparin CVCs. Adoption of antibiotic-impregnated CVCs could be beneficial even for PICUs with low BSI rates, although uncertainty remains whether or not they represent value for money to the NHS. Limitations - inserting clinicians were not blinded to allocation and a lower than expected event rate meant that there was limited power for head-to-head comparisons of each type of impregnation. Future work - adoption of impregnated CVCs in PICUs should be considered and could be monitored through linkage of electronic health-care data and clinical data on CVC use with laboratory surveillance data on BSI.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01029717.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 20, No. 18. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Label Included: 0

Title: Intervention Now to Eliminate Repeat Unintended Pregnancy in Teenagers (INTERUPT): a systematic review of intervention effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, and qualitative and realist synthesis of implementation factors and user engagement.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The UK has one of the highest rates of teenage pregnancies in Western Europe. One-fifth of these are repeat pregnancies. Unintended conceptions can cause substantial emotional, psychological and educational harm to teenagers, often with enduring implications for life chances. Babies of teenage mothers have increased mortality and are at a significantly increased risk of poverty, educational underachievement and unemployment later in life, with associated costs to society. It is important to identify effective, cost-effective and acceptable interventions.
OBJECTIVES: To identify who is at the greatest risk of repeat unintended pregnancies; which interventions are effective and cost-effective; and what the barriers to and facilitators of the uptake of these interventions are.
DATA SOURCES: We conducted a multistreamed, mixed-methods systematic review informed by service user and provider consultation to examine worldwide peer-reviewed evidence and UK-generated grey literature to find and evaluate interventions to reduce repeat unintended teenage pregnancies. We searched the following electronic databases: MEDLINE and MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, PsycINFO, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, The Cochrane Library (Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects and the Health Technology Assessment Database), EMBASE (Excerpta Medica database), British Nursing Index, Educational Resources Information Center, Sociological Abstracts, Applied Social Sciences Index and Abstracts, BiblioMap (the Evidence for Policy and Practice Information and Co-ordinating Centre register of health promotion and public health research), Social Sciences Citation Index (supported by Web of Knowledge), Research Papers in Economics, EconLit (American Economic Association's electronic bibliography), OpenGrey, Scopus, Scirus, Social Care Online, National Research Register, National Institute for Health Research Clinical Research Network Portfolio and Index to THESES. Searches were conducted in May 2013 and updated in June 2014. In addition, we conducted a systematic search of Google (Google Inc., Mountain View, CA, USA) in January 2014. Database searches were guided by an advisory group of stakeholders.
REVIEW METHODS: To address the topic's complexities, we used a structured, innovative and iterative approach combining methods tailored to each evidence stream. Quantitative data (effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, risk factors and effect modifiers) were synthesised with reference to Cochrane guidelines for evaluating evidence on public health interventions. Qualitative evidence addressing facilitators of and barriers to the uptake of interventions, experience and acceptability of interventions was synthesised thematically. We applied the principles of realist synthesis to uncover theories and mechanisms underpinning interventions (what works, for whom and in what context). Finally, we conducted an overarching narrative of synthesis of evidence and gathered service user feedback.
RESULTS: We identified 8664 documents initially, and 816 in repeat searches. We filtered these to 12 randomised controlled trials (RCTs), four quasi-RCTs, 10 qualitative studies and 53 other quantitative studies published between 1996 and 2012. None of the RCTs was based in the UK. The RCTs evaluated an emergency contraception programme and psychosocial interventions. We found no evidence for effectiveness with regard to condom use, contraceptive use or rates of unprotected sex or use of birth control. Our primary outcome was repeat conception rate: the event rate was 132 of 308 (43%) in the intervention group versus 140 of 289 (48%) for the control goup, with a non-significant risk ratio (RR) of 0.92 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.78 to 1.08]. Four studies reported subsequent birth rates: 29 of 237 (12%) events for the intervention arm versus 46 out of 224 (21%) for the control arm, with a RR of 0.60 (95% CI 0.39 to 0.93). Many repeat conceptions occurred in the context of poverty, low expectations and aspirations, and negligible opportunities. Service user feedback suggested that there were specific motivations for many repeat conceptions, for example to replace loss or to please a partner. Realist synthesis highlighted that context, motivation, planning for the future and letting young women take control with connectedness and tailoring provide a conceptual framework for future research.
LIMITATIONS: Included studies rarely characterised adolescent pregnancy as intended or unintended, that is interventions to reduce repeat conceptions rarely addressed whether or not pregnancies were intended. Furthermore, interventions were often not clearly defined, had multiple aims and did not indicate which elements were intended to address which aims. Nearly all of the studies were conducted in the USA and focused largely on African American or Hispanic and Latina American populations.
CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence to indicate that existing interventions to reduce repeat teenage pregnancy were effective; however, subsequent births were reduced by home-based interventions. Qualitative and realist evidence helped to explain gaps in intervention design that should be addressed. More theory-based, rigorously evaluated programmes need to be developed to reduce repeat teenage pregnancy in the UK.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42012003168. Cochrane registration number: i=fertility/0068.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Label Included: 0

Title: EHealth Technologies in Inflammatory Bowel Disease: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Electronic-health technologies (eHealth) such as Web-based interventions, virtual clinics, smart-phone applications, and telemedicine are being used to manage patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). We aimed to: (1) Evaluate the impact of eHealth technologies on conventional clinical indices and patient-reported outcome measures (PROs) in IBD; (2) assess the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and feasibility of using eHealth technologies to facilitate the self-management of individuals with IBD, and; (3) provide recommendations for their design and optimal use for patient care.
METHODS: Relevant publications were identified via a literature search, and 17 publications were selected based on predefined quality parameters.
RESULTS: Six randomized controlled trials and nine observational studies utilizing eHealth technologies in IBD were identified. Compared with standard outpatient-led care, eHealth technologies have led to improvements in: Relapse duration [(n = 1) 18 days vs 77 days, p < 0.001]; disease activity (n = 2); short-term medication adherence (n = 3); quality of life (n = 4); IBD knowledge (n = 2); healthcare costs (n = 4); the number of acute visits to the outpatient clinic due to IBD symptoms (n = 1), and; facilitating the remote management of up to 20% of an IBD cohort (n = 2). Methodological shortcomings of eHealth studies include heterogeneity of outcome measures, lack of clinician/patient input, lack of validation against conventional clinical indices and PROs, and limited cost-benefit analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: EHealth technologies have the potential for promoting self-management and reducing the impact of the growing burden of IBD on health care resource utilization. A theoretical framework should be applied to the development, implementation, and evaluation of eHealth interventions.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Telemedicine in dermatological practice: teledermatology].
Abstract: Technological advances in the fields of information and telecommunication technologies have affected the health care system in the last decades, and lead to the emergence of a new discipline: telemedicine. The appearance and rise of internet and smart phones induced a rapid progression in telemedicine. Several new applications and mobile devices are published every hour even for medical purposes. Parallel to these changes in the technical fields, medical literature about telemedicine has grown rapidly. Due to its visual nature, dermatology is ideally suited to benefit from this new technology and teledermatology became one of the most dynamically evolving fields of telemedicine by now. Teledermatology is not routinely practiced in Hungary yet, however, it promises the health care system to become better, cheaper and faster, but we have to take notice on the experience and problems faced in teledermatologic applications so far, summarized in this review.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Home Treatment].
Abstract: Home Treatment (HT) means acute psychiatric treatment in the patient's usual environment. Conceptually, HT is to be differentiated from other home-based services: It is limited with regard to duration and multiprofessional (e. g. psychiatrist plus psychiatric nursing staff plus social worker); the "24/7"-accessibility is frequently provided by the corresponding background hospital infrastructure. Target group are acutely mentally ill persons with an indication to inpatient treatment, who are willing to cooperate, and absence of endangerment to self and others. In contrast to the Scandinavian and many Anglophone countries where nationwide HT services are delivered, there are not many HT sites in Germany so far. Consequently, empirical data concerning HT in Germany is scarce. In summary, international studies show equivalent effects on psychopathological measures compared to inpatient treatment, reductions with regard to inpatient days, higher patient satisfaction and a trend towards cost-effectivity.
Label Included: 0

Title: Clinical Decision Support Reduces Overuse of Red Blood Cell Transfusions: Interrupted Time Series Analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Red blood cell transfusion is the most common procedure in hospitalized patients in the US. Growing evidence suggests that a sizeable percentage of these transfusions are inappropriate, putting patients at significant risk and increasing costs to the health care system.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective quasi-experimental study from November 2008 until November 2014 in a 576-bed tertiary care hospital. The intervention consisted of an interruptive clinical decision support alert shown to a provider when a red blood cell transfusion was ordered in a patient whose most recent hematocrit was ≥21%. We used interrupted time series analysis to determine whether our primary outcome of interest, rate of red blood cell transfusion in patients with hematocrit ≥21% per 100 patient (pt) days, was reduced by the implementation of the clinical decision support tool. The rate of platelet transfusions was used as a nonequivalent dependent control variable.
RESULTS: A total of 143,000 hospital admissions were included in our analysis. Red blood cell transfusions decreased from 9.4 to 7.8 per 100 pt days after the clinical decision support intervention was implemented. Interrupted time series analysis showed that significant decline of 0.05 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.03-0.07; P < .001) units of red blood cells transfused per 100 pt days per month was already underway in the preintervention period. This trend accelerated to 0.1 (95% CI, 0.09-0.12; P < .001) units of red blood cells transfused per 100 pt days per month following the implementation of the clinical decision support tool. There was no statistical change in the rate of platelet transfusion resulting from the intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of an evidence-based clinical decision support tool was associated with a significant decline in the overuse of red blood cell transfusion. We believe this intervention could be easily replicated in other hospitals using commercial electronic health records and a similar reduction in overuse of red blood cell transfusions achieved.
Label Included: 0

Title: The cost-effectiveness of training US primary care physicians to conduct colorectal cancer screening in family medicine residency programs.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Demand for a wide array of colorectal cancer screening strategies continues to outpace supply. One strategy to reduce this deficit is to dramatically increase the number of primary care physicians who are trained and supportive of performing office-based colonoscopies or flexible sigmoidoscopies. This study evaluates the clinical and economic implications of training primary care physicians via family medicine residency programs to offer colorectal cancer screening services as an in-office procedure.
METHODS: Using previously established clinical and economic assumptions from existing literature and budget data from a local grant (2013), incremental cost-effectiveness ratios are calculated that incorporate the costs of a proposed national training program and subsequent improvements in patient compliance. Sensitivity analyses are also conducted.
RESULTS: Baseline assumptions suggest that the intervention would produce 2394 newly trained residents who could perform 71,820 additional colonoscopies or 119,700 additional flexible sigmoidoscopies after ten years. Despite high costs associated with the national training program, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios remain well below standard willingness-to-pay thresholds under base case assumptions. Interestingly, the status quo hierarchy of preferred screening strategies is disrupted by the proposed intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: A national overhaul of family medicine residency programs offering training for colorectal cancer screening yields satisfactory incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. However, the model places high expectations on primary care physicians to improve current compliance levels in the US.
Label Included: 0

Title: Can we do better? Economic analysis of human resource investment to improve home care service for the elderly in Serbia.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Social services aimed at the elderly are facing great challenges caused by progressive aging of the global population but also by the constant pressure to spend funds in a rational manner.
PURPOSE: This paper focuses on analyzing the investments into human resources aimed at enhancing home care for the elderly since many countries have recorded progress in the area over the past years. The goal of this paper is to stress the significance of performing an economic analysis of the investment.
METHODS: This paper combines statistical analysis methods such as correlation and regression analysis, methods of economic analysis, and scenario method.
RESULTS: The economic analysis of investing in human resources for home care service in Serbia showed that the both scenarios of investing in either additional home care hours or more beneficiaries are cost-efficient. However, the optimal solution with the positive (and the highest) value of economic net present value criterion is to invest in human resources to boost the number of home care hours from 6 to 8 hours per week and increase the number of the beneficiaries to 33%.
CONCLUSION: This paper shows how the statistical and economic analysis results can be used to evaluate different scenarios and enable quality decision-making based on exact data in order to improve health and quality of life of the elderly and spend funds in a rational manner.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using electronic health records to predict costs and outcomes in stable coronary artery disease.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To use electronic health records (EHR) to predict lifetime costs and health outcomes of patients with stable coronary artery disease (stable-CAD) stratified by their risk of future cardiovascular events, and to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of treatments targeted at these populations.
METHODS: The analysis was based on 94 966 patients with stable-CAD in England between 2001 and 2010, identified in four prospectively collected, linked EHR sources. Markov modelling was used to estimate lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) stratified by baseline cardiovascular risk.
RESULTS: For the lowest risk tenth of patients with stable-CAD, predicted discounted remaining lifetime healthcare costs and QALYs were £62 210 (95% CI £33 724 to £90 043) and 12.0 (95% CI 11.5 to 12.5) years, respectively. For the highest risk tenth of the population, the equivalent costs and QALYs were £35 549 (95% CI £31 679 to £39 615) and 2.9 (95% CI 2.6 to 3.1) years, respectively. A new treatment with a hazard reduction of 20% for myocardial infarction, stroke and cardiovascular disease death and no side-effects would be cost-effective if priced below £72 per year for the lowest risk patients and £646 per year for the highest risk patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Existing EHRs may be used to estimate lifetime healthcare costs and outcomes of patients with stable-CAD. The stable-CAD model developed in this study lends itself to informing decisions about commissioning, pricing and reimbursement. At current prices, to be cost-effective some established as well as future stable-CAD treatments may require stratification by patient risk.
Label Included: 0

Title: A new electronic screening tool for identifying risk of familial hypercholesterolaemia in general practice.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the performance of a new electronic screening tool (TARB-Ex) in detecting general practice patients at potential risk of familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH).
METHODS: Medical records for all active patients seen between 2012 and 2014 (n=3708) at a large general practice in Perth, Western Australia were retrospectively screened for potential FH risk using TARB-Ex. Electronic extracts of medical records for patients identified with potential FH risk (defined as Dutch Lipid Clinic Network Criteria (DLCNC) score ≥5) through TARB-Ex were reviewed by a general practitioner (GP) and lipid specialist. High-risk patients were recalled for clinical assessment to determine phenotypic FH diagnosis. Performance was evaluated against a manual record review by a GP in the subset of 360 patients with high blood cholesterol (cholesterol ≥7 mmol/L or low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ≥4.0 mmol/L).
RESULTS: Thirty-two patients with DLCNC score ≥5 were identified through electronic screening compared with 22 through GP manual review. Sensitivity was 95.5% (95% CI 77.2% to 99.9%), specificity was 96.7% (95% CI 94.3% to 98.3%), negative predictive accuracy was 99.7% (95% CI 98.3% to 100%) and positive predictive accuracy was 65.6% (95% CI 46.9% to 8%). Electronic screening was completed in 10 min compared with 60 h for GP manual review. 10 of 32 patients (31%) were considered high risk and recalled for clinical assessment. Six of seven patients (86%) who attended clinical assessment were diagnosed with phenotypic FH on examination.
CONCLUSIONS: TARB-Ex screening is a time-effective and cost-effective method of systematically identifying potential FH risk patients from general practice records for clinical follow-up.
Label Included: 0

Title: Efficacy and cost effectiveness of telemedicine for improving access to care in the Paris region: study protocols for eight trials.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: With the development of information and communication technologies, telemedicine has been proposed as a way to improve patient management by facilitating access to appropriate diagnosis and treatment. The Paris Ile de France Regional Health Agency is currently funding a comprehensive program of telemedicine experiments. This article describes the protocols for the evaluation of the implementation of telemedicine in the Paris region.
METHODS/DESIGN: Over 2,500 patients have been included in eight studies addressing the use of telemedicine in the context of specific diseases or settings. Two projects are randomized controlled trials, while the six other projects are based on before-after designs (differences in differences studies). Based on the MAST model and the French national framework, we identified endpoints to assess the impact of telemedicine on five dimensions: clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, security of the application, patient satisfaction and quality of life and perception of professionals.
DISCUSSION: Telemedicine encompasses a wide range of services and stakeholders, and thus study protocols must be tailored to the specific constraints and interests of the users.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02110433 (03/07/2014), NCT02157740 (05/27/2014), NCT02374697 (02/05/2015), NCT02157727 (05/27/2014), NCT02229279 (08/28/2014), NCT02368769 (02/05/2015), NCT02164747 (NCT02164747), NCT02309905 (11/27/2014).
Label Included: 0

Title: Early Supported Discharge/Hospital At Home For Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: A Review and Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: A systematic review and meta-analysis was performed to assess the safety, efficacy and cost of Early Supported Discharge (ESD) and Hospital at Home (HAH) compared to Usual Care (UC) for patients with acute exacerbation of COPD (AECOPD). The structure of ESD/HAH schemes was reviewed, and analyses performed assuming return to hospital during the acute period (prior to discharge from home treatment) was, and was not, considered a readmission. The pre-defined search strategy completed in November 2014 included electronic databases (Medline, Embase, Amed, BNI, Cinahl and HMIC), libraries, current trials registers, national organisations, key respiratory journals, key author contact and grey literature. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ESD/HAH to UC in patients admitted with AECOPD, or attending the emergency department and triaged for admission, were included. Outcome measures were mortality, all-cause readmissions to 6 months and cost. Eight RCTs were identified; seven reported mortality and readmissions. The structure of ESD/HAH schemes, particularly selection criteria applied and level of support provided, varied considerably. Compared to UC, ESD/HAH showed a trend towards lower mortality (RRMH = 0.66; 95% CI 0.40-1.09, p = 0.10). If return to hospital during the acute period was not considered a readmission, ESD/HAH was associated with fewer readmissions (RRMH = 0.74, 95% CI: 0.60-0.90, p = 0.003), but if considered a readmission, the benefit was lost (RRMH = 0.84; 95% CI 0.69-1.01, p = 0.07). Costs were lower for ESD/HAH than UC. ESD/HAH is safe in selected patients with an AECOPD. Further research is required to define optimal criteria to guide patient selection and models of care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Battery drain in daily practice and medium-term projections on longevity of cardioverter-defibrillators: an analysis from a remote monitoring database.
Abstract: AIMS: The longevity of generators is a crucial determinant of the cost-effectiveness of therapy with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) and cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-D). We evaluated the trend of device-measured residual battery capacity and longevity projections over 5-year follow-up. We also investigated possible factors associated with battery drain.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Data from 4851 patients in the European LATITUDE(®) database who were followed up for a minimum of 3 years were analysed. The factors associated with battery drain (i.e. year-to-year decrease in residual battery capacity), and thus potentially impacting on device longevity, were mainly the pacing parameters in CRT-D devices and the number of shocks delivered and diverted in both ICD and CRT-D (all P < 0.01 on linear regression analysis). Over the first 5 years, the longevity estimates provided by devices showed low intra-patient variability and increased with time. The estimates exceeded 10 years for CRT-D and 13 and 12 years for single- and dual-chamber ICDs, respectively. In CRT-D patients, the expected patient age on replacement was 80 ± 12 years, and the expected probability of undergoing device replacement was 63 ± 13% for New York Heart Association (NYHA) II patients and 37 ± 16% for NYHA III patients. For comparison, the probabilities of replacing a CRT-D lasting 5 years were 78 ± 8 and 59 ± 13%, respectively (both P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Battery drain was mainly associated with pacing output in CRT-D devices and with the number of capacitor charges in both ICD and CRT-D devices. The longevity estimates provided by the devices were consistent and conservative. According to these estimates, among CRT-D recipients a low proportion of patients should require device replacement.
Label Included: 0

Title: One-year Surgical Outcomes and Costs for Medicaid Versus Non-Medicaid Patients Undergoing Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass: A Single-Center Study.
Abstract: PURPOSE: To compare 1-year outcomes and costs between severely obese Medicaid and non-Medicaid patients who underwent laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery.
METHODS: This is a single-institution retrospective review comparing 33 Medicaid patients to 99 randomly selected non-Medicaid patients (1:3 case-control). Ninety-day and 1-year outcomes were extracted from the electronic health record. Costs were obtained from the UW information technology division. Bivariate analyses were used to compare study variables.
RESULTS: Emergency department visits (48.2% vs. 27.4%; P=0.06) and readmissions (37.0% vs. 14.7%; P=0.01) were more common for Medicaid patients. Medicaid patients had less excess body weight loss (50.7% vs. 65.6%; P=0.001) but similar comorbidity resolution and complication rates. One-year median costs were similar between Medicaid and non-Medicaid patients ($21,160 vs. $24,215; P=0.92).
CONCLUSIONS: One-year comorbidity resolution, complications, and costs following laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass were similar between Medicaid and non-Medicaid patients. Focusing on reducing emergency department presentations and readmissions would be a high-impact area for future quality improvement initiatives.
Label Included: 0

Title: Physical Activity Outcomes of Nurse-Delivered Lifestyle Interventions.
Abstract: Promotion of physical activity has been a public health priority for decades. Over two million home healthcare nurses are at the front line to deliver effective health education and health promotion interventions in the United States. The purpose of this systematic review is to examine the effectiveness of nurse-delivered lifestyle physical interventions on physical activity outcomes conducted in home settings. Computerized database and ancestry search strategies located distinct intervention trials between 1990 and 2015. A total of eight quantitative studies were reviewed. Four of the eight studies were randomized control trials and four studies used an uncontrolled pretest-posttest design. The eight studies represented a total of 1,221 participants with mean ages from 43 to 81. Study sample sizes ranged from 16 to 504. Seven of the eight studies demonstrated modest effect of nurse-delivered home-based interventions on physical activity behaviors. Home-based physical activity promotion was most often incorporated into secondary prevention of postacute diseases, chronic disease management, or disease prevention/health promotion. Findings indicate that nurse-delivered home-based physical activity promotion show overall effectiveness in general adult populations. Possible effective intervention domains were also discussed in this review to guide future home-based health promotion. More large randomized controlled trials with longer study/follow-up periods and studies with cost-effectiveness data are warranted in future research.
Label Included: 0

Title: Markov Models and Cost Effectiveness Analysis: Applications in Medical Research
Abstract: This case study describes common Markov models, their specific application in medical research, health economics and cost-effectiveness analysis.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs and outcomes of increasing access to bariatric surgery for obesity: cohort study and cost-effectiveness analysis using electronic health records
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Bariatric surgery is known to be an effective treatment for extreme obesity but access to these procedures is currently limited.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the costs and outcomes of increasing access to bariatric surgery for severe and morbid obesity.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Primary care electronic health records from the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink were analysed for 3045 participants who received bariatric surgery and 247,537 general population controls. The cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery was evaluated in severe and morbid obesity through a probabilistic Markov model populated with empirical data from electronic health records.
RESULTS: In participants who did not undergo bariatric surgery, the probability of participants with morbid obesity attaining normal body weight was 1 in 1290 annually for men and 1 in 677 for women. Costs of health-care utilisation increased with body mass index category but obesity-related physical and psychological comorbidities were the main drivers of health-care costs. In a cohort of 3045 adult obese patients with first bariatric surgery procedures between 2002 and 2014, bariatric surgery procedure rates were greatest among those aged 35–54 years, with a peak of 37 procedures per 100,000 population per year in women and 10 per 100,000 per year in men. During 7 years of follow-up, the incidence of diabetes diagnosis was 28.2 [95% confidence interval (CI) 24.4 to 32.7] per 1000 person-years in controls and 5.7 (95% CI 4.2 to 7.8) per 1000 person-years in bariatric surgery patients (adjusted hazard ratio was 0.20, 95% CI 0.13 to 0.30; p < 0.0001). In 826 obese participants with type 2 diabetes mellitus who received bariatric surgery, the relative rate of diabetes remission, compared with controls, was 5.97 (95% CI 4.86 to 7.33; p < 0.001). There was a slight reduction in depression in the first 3 years following bariatric surgery that was not maintained. Incremental lifetime costs associated with bariatric surgery were £15,258 (95% CI £15,184 to £15,330), including costs associated with bariatric surgical procedures of £9164 per participant. Incremental quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were 2.142 (95% CI 2.031 to 2.256) per participant. The estimated cost per QALY gained was £7129 (95% CI £6775 to £7506). Estimates were similar across gender, age and deprivation subgroups.
LIMITATIONS: Intervention effects were derived from a randomised trial with generally short follow-up and non-randomised studies of longer duration.
CONCLUSIONS: Bariatric surgery is associated with increased immediate and long-term health-care costs but these are exceeded by expected health benefits to obese individuals with reduced onset of new diabetes, remission of existing diabetes and lower mortality. Diverse obese individuals have clear capacity to benefit from bariatric surgery at acceptable cost.
FUTURE WORK: Future research should evaluate longer-term outcomes of currently used procedures, and ways of delivering these more efficiently and safely.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Services and Delivery Research programme. Martin C Gulliford and A Toby Prevost were supported by the NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Guy’s and St Thomas’ Hospitals. Peter Littlejohns was supported by the South London Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care. The funders did not engage in the design, conduct or reporting of the research.
Label Included: 0

Title: Personal Electronic Health Records: A Review of Clinical Effectiveness, Cost-Effectiveness, and Guidelines
Abstract: The purposes of this review is to provide evidence on the comparative clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of personal electronic health records, and to summarize the guidelines that are relevant to the use of personal electronic health records in chronic disease management.
Label Included: 0

Title: Sustainable Cost Models for mHealth at Scale: Modeling Program Data from m4RH Tanzania.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: There is increasing evidence that mobile phone health interventions ("mHealth") can improve health behaviors and outcomes and are critically important in low-resource, low-access settings. However, the majority of mHealth programs in developing countries fail to reach scale. One reason may be the challenge of developing financially sustainable programs. The goal of this paper is to explore strategies for mHealth program sustainability and develop cost-recovery models for program implementers using 2014 operational program data from Mobile for Reproductive Health (m4RH), a national text-message (SMS) based health communication service in Tanzania.
METHODS: We delineated 2014 m4RH program costs and considered three strategies for cost-recovery for the m4RH program: user pay-for-service, SMS cost reduction, and strategic partnerships. These inputs were used to develop four different cost-recovery scenarios. The four scenarios leveraged strategic partnerships to reduce per-SMS program costs and create per-SMS program revenue and varied the structure for user financial contribution. Finally, we conducted break-even and uncertainty analyses to evaluate the costs and revenues of these models at the 2014 user volume (125,320) and at any possible break-even volume.
RESULTS: In three of four scenarios, costs exceeded revenue by $94,596, $34,443, and $84,571 at the 2014 user volume. However, these costs represented large reductions (54%, 83%, and 58%, respectively) from the 2014 program cost of $203,475. Scenario four, in which the lowest per-SMS rate ($0.01 per SMS) was negotiated and users paid for all m4RH SMS sent or received, achieved a $5,660 profit at the 2014 user volume. A Monte Carlo uncertainty analysis demonstrated that break-even points were driven by user volume rather than variations in program costs.
CONCLUSIONS: These results reveal that breaking even was only probable when all SMS costs were transferred to users and the lowest per-SMS cost was negotiated with telecom partners. While this strategy was sustainable for the implementer, a central concern is that health information may not reach those who are too poor to pay, limiting the program's reach and impact. Incorporating strategies presented here may make mHealth programs more appealing to funders and investors but need further consideration to balance sustainability, scale, and impact.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Challenges of aging skin: Care and therapy using the example of venous ulcers].
Abstract: BACKGROUND: One of the most significant, and growing, challenges in modern medicine, i.e. the treatment of chronic wounds, is marked by nonuniform data. This concerns both prevalence and incidence of chronic dermatosis, in particular venous ulcers (ulcus cruris), as well as the impact on the health-related quality of life, and practical and economic parameters of the success of different therapies.
PURPOSE: The aim of this work is to examine the epidemiology of chronic wounds, in particular age-associated venous ulcers, their impact on health-related quality of life, the treatment regimen, and practical and economic parameters of the success of different therapies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Performed were analysis of data on the care of venous ulcers in Germany, based on secondary data of Barmer GEK from 2009 and 2012, comparison with data of a NHS Kent Community Health Trust study, and analysis of studies concerning structures, processes and critical success factors for the treatment of chronic wounds, including economic effects.
CONCLUSION: Early causal therapy with treatment based on the stage of the wound, consequent goal-oriented interdisciplinary care, and relapse prophylaxis is critical for successful healing of venous ulcers. The costs of treatment significantly correlate with the duration of treatment which can be reduced by up to 60% using guideline-based concepts for the treatment of chronic wounds. Treatment success, in particular with regard to cost-benefit considerations, can be optimized by telemedicine networks of key players who treat chronic wounds.
Label Included: 0

Title: Improving a web-based employability intervention for work-disabled employees: results of a pilot economic evaluation.
Abstract: Purpose The purpose of this study is to improve web-based employability interventions for employees with work-related health problems for both intervention content and study design by means of a pilot economic evaluation. Methods Uptake rate analysis for the intervention elements, cost effectiveness, cost utility and subgroup analyses were conducted to identify potential content-related intervention improvements. Differences in work ability and quality-adjusted life years and overall contribution of resource items to the total costs were assessed. These were used to guide study design improvements. Results Sixty-three participants were a-select allocated to either the intervention (n = 29) or the control (n = 34) group. Uptake regarding the intervention elements ranged between 3% and 70%. Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses resulted in negative effects although higher total costs. Incremental effects were marginal (work ability -0.51; QALY -0.01). Conclusions The web-based tool to enhance employability among work disabled employees requires improvements regarding targeting and intensity; outcome measures selected and collection of cost data. With respect to the studies of disability and rehabilitation, the findings and methods presented in this pilot economic evaluation could guide the assessment of future assistive "e-health" technologies. IMPLICATIONS FOR REHABILITATION The methods presented in this pilot economic evaluation have large potentials to guide the assessment of future assistive e-health technologies addressing work-disabilities. The findings show that the web-based tool requires content related improvements with respect to targeting and intensity to enhance employability among work disabled employees. The findings show that the web-based tool would benefit from improvements related to the study design by more adequately selecting and collecting both outcome measures and cost data. The burden attributable to large-scale studies and implementation issues were prevented as the outcomes of the pilot economic evaluation did not support the implementation of the web-based tool.
Label Included: 0

Title: Ethnic and geographic variations in the epidemiology of childhood fractures in the United Kingdom.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Fractures are common in childhood, and there is considerable variation in the reported incidence across European countries, but few data relating to ethnic and geographic differences within a single country. We therefore aimed to determine the incidence of childhood fractures in the United Kingdom (UK), and to describe age-, ethnicity- and region- specific variations.
METHODS: The Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) contains anonymised electronic health records for approximately 7% of the UK population. The occurrence of a fracture between 1988 and 2012 was determined from the CPRD for all individuals <18years of age, and used to calculate fracture incidence rates for age, sex and ethnicity. Regional fracture incidence rates were also calculated based on general practitioner location within 14 Strategic Health Authorities (SHA) within the UK.
RESULTS: The overall fracture incidence rate was 137 per 10,000 person-years (py). This was higher in boys (169 per 10,000 py) than girls (103 per 10,000 py) and white children (150 per 10,000 py) compared to those of black (64 per 10,000 py) and South Asian (81 per 10,000 py) ethnicity. Marked geographic variation in incidence was observed. The highest fracture rates were observed in Wales, where boys and girls had 1.82 and 1.97 times greater incidence, respectively, than those residing in Greater London.
CONCLUSION: In the period 1988-2012, there was marked geographic and ethnic variation in childhood fracture incidence across the UK. These findings also implicate lifestyle and socio-economic differences associated with location and ethnicity, and are relevant to policy makers in the UK and internationally.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness of the "Cancer Home-Life Intervention" on everyday activities and quality of life in people with advanced cancer living at home: a randomised controlled trial and an economic evaluation.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: During the past decade an increasing number of people live with advanced cancer mainly due to improved medical treatment. Research has shown that many people with advanced cancer have problems with everyday activities, which have negative impact on their quality of life, and that they spend a considerable part of their time at home. Still, research on interventions to support the performance of and participation in everyday activities is only scarcely available. Therefore, the occupational therapy-based "Cancer Home-Life Intervention" consisting of tailored adaptive interventions applied in the participant's home environment was developed. The objective of this study is to examine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the Cancer Home-Life Intervention compared to usual care on the performance of and participation in everyday activities and quality of life in people with advanced cancer living at home.
METHODS: The study is a randomised, controlled trial (RCT) including an economic evaluation. The required sample size of 272 adults living at home will be recruited from outpatient clinics at two Danish hospitals. They should be diagnosed with cancer; evaluated incurable by the responsible oncologist; and with a functional level 1-2 on the WHO performance scale. The primary outcome is the quality of performance of activities of daily living. Secondary outcomes are problems with prioritised everyday activities; autonomy and participation; and health-related quality of life. Participants are randomly assigned to: a) The Cancer Home-Life Intervention in addition to usual care, and b) Usual care alone.
DISCUSSION: The trial will show whether the Cancer Home-Life Intervention provides better support for people with advanced cancer living at home in performing and participating in everyday activities, and whether it contributes to their health-related quality of life. The economic evaluation alongside the RCT will show if the Cancer Home-Life Intervention is cost-effective. The trial will also show the acceptability of the intervention to the target group, and whether subgroups of participants will benefit more than others.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT02356627. Registered 02/02/2015.
Label Included: 0

Title: The problem with medication reconciliation.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of home palliative care services for adults with advanced illness and their caregivers.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Extensive evidence shows that well over 50% of people prefer to be cared for and to die at home provided circumstances allow choice. Despite best efforts and policies, one-third or less of all deaths take place at home in many countries of the world.
OBJECTIVES: 1. to quantify the effect of home palliative care services for adult patients with advanced illness and their family caregivers on patients' odds of dying at home; 2. to examine the clinical effectiveness of home palliative care services on other outcomes for patients and their caregivers such as symptom control, quality of life, caregiver distress and satisfaction with care; 3. to compare the resource use and costs associated with these services; 4. to critically appraise and summarize the current evidence on cost-effectiveness.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched 12 electronic databases up to November 2012. We checked the reference lists of all included studies, 49 relevant systematic reviews, four key textbooks and recent conference abstracts. We contacted 17 experts and researchers for unpublished data.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), controlled clinical trials (CCTs), controlled before and after studies (CBAs) and interrupted time series (ITSs) evaluating the impact of home palliative care services on outcomes for adults with advanced illness or their family caregivers, or both.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: One review author assessed the identified titles and abstracts. Two independent reviewers performed assessment of all potentially relevant studies, data extraction and assessment of methodological quality. We carried out meta-analysis where appropriate and calculated numbers needed to treat to benefit (NNTBs) for the primary outcome (death at home).
MAIN RESULTS: We identified 23 studies (16 RCTs, 6 of high quality), including 37,561 participants and 4042 family caregivers, largely with advanced cancer but also congestive heart failure (CHF), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), HIV/AIDS and multiple sclerosis (MS), among other conditions. Meta-analysis showed increased odds of dying at home (odds ratio (OR) 2.21, 95% CI 1.31 to 3.71; Z = 2.98, P value = 0.003; Chi2 = 20.57, degrees of freedom (df) = 6, P value = 0.002; I2 = 71%; NNTB 5, 95% CI 3 to 14 (seven trials with 1222 participants, three of high quality)). In addition, narrative synthesis showed evidence of small but statistically significant beneficial effects of home palliative care services compared to usual care on reducing symptom burden for patients (three trials, two of high quality, and one CBA with 2107 participants) and of no effect on caregiver grief (three RCTs, two of high quality, and one CBA with 2113 caregivers). Evidence on cost-effectiveness (six studies) is inconclusive.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The results provide clear and reliable evidence that home palliative care increases the chance of dying at home and reduces symptom burden in particular for patients with cancer, without impacting on caregiver grief. This justifies providing home palliative care for patients who wish to die at home. More work is needed to study cost-effectiveness especially for people with non-malignant conditions, assessing place of death and appropriate outcomes that are sensitive to change and valid in these populations, and to compare different models of home palliative care, in powered studies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Online genetic counseling from the providers' perspective: counselors' evaluations and a time and cost analysis.
Abstract: Telemedicine applications are increasingly being introduced in patient care in various disciplines, including clinical genetics, mainly to increase access to care and to reduce time and costs for patients and professionals. Most telegenetics reports describe applications in large geographical areas, showing positive patients' and professionals' satisfaction. One economic analysis published thus far reported lower costs than in-person care. We hypothesized that telegenetics can also be beneficial from the professional's view in relatively small geographical areas. We performed a pilot study in the Northern Netherlands of 51 home-based online counseling sessions for cardiogenetic and oncogenetic cascade screening, and urgent prenatal counseling. Previously, we showed patient satisfaction, anxiety, and perceived control of online counseling to be comparable to in-person counseling. This study focuses on expectations, satisfaction, and practical evaluations of the involved counselors, and the impact in terms of time and costs. Most counselors expected disadvantages of online counseling for themselves and their patients, mainly concerning insufficient non-verbal communication; few expected advantages for themselves. Afterwards, counselors additionally raised the disadvantage of insufficient verbal communication, and reported frequent technical problems. Their overall mean telemedicine satisfaction itemscore was 3.38 before, and 2.95 afterwards, being afterwards slightly below the minimum level we set for a satisfactory result. We estimated reduced time and costs by online counseling with about 8% and 10-12%, respectively. We showed online genetic counseling to be effective, feasible and cost-efficient, but technical improvements are needed to increase counselors' satisfaction.
Label Included: 0

Title: Increasing the impact of teleophthalmology in Australia: Analysis of structural and economic drivers in a state service.
Abstract: PROBLEM: Despite its potential to improve service provision for country patients, teleophthalmology is currently underused in Australia. There is an associated lack of cost-effectiveness data for teleophthamology.
DESIGN: Retrospective and prospective hospital-based clinical audits of 5456 patients; descriptive survey of available telehealth equipment in 129 regional facilities; cost calculations for teleophthalmology, patient transfers and outreach services.
SETTING: Primary (optometry, general practice [GP], Aboriginal Medical Service [AMS]) and secondary (hospital) sites in regional Western Australia; a tertiary hospital in Perth.
KEY MEASURES FOR IMPROVEMENT: Proportion of patients suitable for teleophthalmology; proportion of regional practices with telehealth technology; capital expenditure to equip regional practices for teleophthalmology; total savings from increased utilisation of teleophthalmology.
STRATEGIES FOR CHANGE: Advocacy for funding, regulatory, training and infrastructure recommendations, in order to support efficient models of teleophthalmology.
EFFECTS OF CHANGE: A total of 15% and 24% of urgent patient transfers and outreach consultations, respectively, were found to be suitable for teleophthalmology, equating to a potential total cost saving of $1.1 million/year. Capital expenditure required for basic telehealth equipment was negligible for optometrists, compared to $20 500 per GP/AMS practice. Successful advocacy led to funding, training and policy changes to support optometry-led teleophthalmology for country patients in Australia.
LESSONS LEARNT: Public-private partnerships can result in significant cost-savings for the Australian health system. Targeted, evidence-based advocacy can inform government health reforms.
Label Included: 0

Title: Interventions to Improve Sexually Transmitted Disease Screening in Clinic-Based Settings.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The asymptomatic nature and suboptimal screening rates of sexually transmitted diseases (STD) call for implementation of successful interventions to improve screening in community-based clinic settings with attention to cost and resources.
METHODS: We used MEDLINE to systematically review comparative analyses of interventions to improve STD (chlamydia, gonorrhea, or syphilis) screening or rescreening in clinic-based settings that were published between January 2000 and January 2014. Absolute differences in the percent of the target population screened between comparison groups or relative percent increase in the number of tests or patients tested were used to score the interventions as highly effective (>20% increase) or moderately effective (5%-19% increase) in improving screening. Published cost of the interventions was described where available and, when not available, was estimated.
RESULTS: Of the 4566 citations reviewed, 38 articles describing 42 interventions met the inclusion criteria. Of the 42 interventions, 16 (38.1%) were categorized as highly effective and 14 (33.3%) as moderately effective. Effective low-cost interventions (<$1000) included the strategic placement of specimen collection materials or automatic collection of STD specimens as part of a routine visit (7 highly effective and 1 moderately effective) and the use of electronic health records (EHRs; 3 highly effective and 4 moderately effective). Patient reminders for screening or rescreening (via text, telephone, and postcards) were highly effective (3) or moderately effective (2) and low or moderate cost (<$1001-10,000). Interventions with dedicated clinic staff to improve STD screening were highly effective (2) or moderately effective in improving STD screening (1) but high-cost ($10,001-$100,000).
CONCLUSIONS: Successful interventions include changing clinic flow to routinely collect specimens for testing, using EHR screening reminders, and reminding patients to get screened or rescreened. These strategies can be tailored to different clinic settings to improve screening at a low cost.
Label Included: 0

Title: Simulation of ICD-9 to ICD-10-CM Transition for Family Medicine: Simple or Convoluted?
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to examine the impact of the transition from International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM), to Interactional Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-10-CM), on family medicine and to identify areas where additional training might be required.
METHODS: Family medicine ICD-9-CM codes were obtained from an Illinois Medicaid data set (113,000 patient visits and $5.5 million in claims). Using the science of networks, we evaluated each ICD-9-CM code used by family medicine physicians to determine whether the transition was simple or convoluted. A simple transition is defined as 1 ICD-9-CM code mapping to 1 ICD-10-CM code, or 1 ICD-9-CM code mapping to multiple ICD-10-CM codes. A convoluted transition is where the transitions between coding systems is nonreciprocal and complex, with multiple codes for which definitions become intertwined. Three family medicine physicians evaluated the most frequently encountered complex mappings for clinical accuracy.
RESULTS: Of the 1635 diagnosis codes used by family medicine physicians, 70% of the codes were categorized as simple, 27% of codes were convoluted, and 3% had no mapping. For the visits, 75%, 24%, and 1% corresponded with simple, convoluted, and no mapping, respectively. Payment for submitted claims was similarly aligned. Of the frequently encountered convoluted codes, 3 diagnosis codes were clinically incorrect, but they represent only <0.1% of the overall diagnosis codes.
CONCLUSIONS: The transition to ICD-10-CM is simple for 70% or more of diagnosis codes, visits, and reimbursement for a family medicine physician. However, some frequently used codes for disease management are convoluted and incorrect, and for which additional resources need to be invested to ensure a successful transition to ICD-10-CM.
Label Included: 0

Title: A telehealth program for CPAP adherence reduces labor and yields similar adherence and efficacy when compared to standard of care.
Abstract: PURPOSE: This study evaluated the effectiveness and coaching labor requirements of a web-based automated telehealth (TH) messaging program compared with standard of care (SOC) in newly diagnosed patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).
METHODS: In this non-blinded, multicenter, prospective study, all patients were started on continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) with heated humidification and a wireless modem. They all received standardized CPAP education and setup. Patients in the TH group (n = 58) received an automated series of text messages and/or e-mails that were triggered by preset conditions. Patients in the SOC group (n = 64) received scheduled calls on days 1, 7, 14, and 30. Additional contacts were allowed for patients in both groups as deemed clinically necessary. Coaching labor was calculated by totaling the number and type of patient contacts and assigning historical time values.
RESULTS: One hundred twenty-two patients were included in the final analysis. There were no statistically significant differences between the TH and SOC groups for Medicare adherence (83 vs. 73 %), daily CPAP usage (5.1 ± 1.9 h vs. 4.7 ± 2.1 h), CPAP efficacy (mean residual apnea-hypopnea index (3.0 ± 4.1/h vs. 2.8 ± 3.8/h), or change in Epworth Sleepiness Scale score (-5.8 ± 5.5 vs. -5.1 ± 5.9), although all trends favored the TH group. There was, however, a significant reduction in the number of minutes coaching required per patient in the TH vs. SOC group (23.9 ± 26 vs. 58.3 ± 25, 59 % reduction; p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Use of a web-based telehealth program for CPAP adherence coaching significantly reduced the coaching labor requirement compared with SOC, while maintaining similar adherence and effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cellulitis: Home Or Inpatient in Children from the Emergency Department (CHOICE): protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Children needing intravenous antibiotics for cellulitis are usually admitted to hospital, whereas adults commonly receive intravenous treatment at home. This is a randomised controlled trial (RCT) of intravenous antibiotic treatment of cellulitis in children comparing administration of ceftriaxone at home with standard care of flucloxacillin in hospital. The study aims to compare (1) the rate of treatment failure at home versus hospital (2) the safety of treatment at home versus hospital; and (3) the effect of exposure to short course ceftriaxone versus flucloxacillin on nasal and gut micro-organism resistance patterns and the clinical implications.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: children aged 6 months to <18 years with uncomplicated moderate/severe cellulitis, requiring intravenous antibiotics.
EXCLUSIONS: complicated cellulitis (eg, orbital, foreign body) and immunosuppressed or toxic patients. The study is a single-centre, open-label, non-inferiority RCT. It is set in the emergency department (ED) at the Royal Children's Hospital (RCH) in Melbourne, Australia and the Hospital-in-the-Home (HITH) programme; a home-care programme, which provides outreach from RCH. Recruitment will occur in ED from January 2015 to December 2016. Participants will be randomised to either treatment in hospital, or transfer home under the HITH programme. The calculated sample size is 188 patients (94 per group) and data will be analysed by intention-to-treat.
PRIMARY OUTCOME: treatment failure defined as a change in treatment due to lack of clinical improvement according to the treating physician or adverse events, within 48 h
SECONDARY OUTCOMES: readmission to hospital, representation, adverse events, length of stay, microbiological results, development of resistance, cost-effectiveness, patient/parent satisfaction. This study has started recruitment.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study has been approved by the Human Research Ethics Committee of the RCH Melbourne (34254C) and registered with the ClinicalTrials.gov registry (NCT02334124). We aim to disseminate the findings through international peer-reviewed journals and conferences.
CLINICAL TRIAL: Pre-results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Costs and effects of a telephonic diabetes self-management support intervention using health educators.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Self-management is crucial to successful glycemic control in patients with diabetes, yet it requires patients to initiate and sustain complicated behavioral changes. Support programs can improve glycemic control, but may be expensive to implement. We report here an analysis of the costs of a successful telephone-based self-management support program delivered by lay health educators utilizing a municipal health department A1c registry, and relate them to near-term effectiveness.
METHODS: Costs of implementation were assessed by micro-costing of all resources used. Per-capita costs and cost-effectiveness ratios from the perspective of the service provider are estimated for net A1c reduction, and percentages of patients achieving A1c reductions of 0.5 and 1.0 percentage points. One-way sensitivity analyses of key cost elements, and a Monte Carlo sensitivity analysis are reported.
RESULTS: The telephone intervention was provided to 443 people at a net cost of $187.61 each. Each percentage point of net A1c reduction was achieved at a cost of $464.41. Labor costs were the largest component of costs, and cost-effectiveness was most sensitive to the wages paid to the health educators.
CONCLUSIONS: Effective telephone-based self-management support for people in poor diabetes control can be delivered by health educators at moderate cost relative to the gains achieved. The costs of doing so are most sensitive to the prevailing wage for the health educators.
Label Included: 0

Title: Is there a role for telemedicine in adult allergy services?
Abstract: Telemedicine refers to the application of telecommunication and information technology (IT) in the delivery of health and clinical care at a distance or remotely and can be broadly considered in two modalities: store-and-forward and real-time interactive services. Preliminary studies have shown promising results in radiology, dermatology, intensive care, diabetes, rheumatology and primary care. However, the evidence is limited and hampered by small sample sizes, paucity of randomized control studies and lack of data relating to cost-effectiveness, health-related quality of life and patient and clinician satisfaction. This review appraises the evidence from studies that have employed telemedicine tools in other disciplines and makes suggestions for its potential applications in specific clinical scenarios in adult allergy services. Possible examples include: triaging patients to determine the need for allergy tests; pre-assessment for specialized treatments such as allergen immunotherapy, follow-up to assess treatment response and side effects; and education in self-management plan including training updates for self-injectable adrenaline and nasal spray use. This approach might improve access for those with limited mobility or living far away from regional centres, as well as bringing convenience and cost savings for the patient and service provider. These potential benefits need to be carefully weighed against evidence of service safety and quality. Keys to success include delineation of appropriate clinical scenarios, patient selection, training, IT support and robust information governance framework. Well-designed prospective studies are needed to evaluate its role.
Label Included: 0

Title: Acceptability Study of "Ascenso": An Online Program for Monitoring and Supporting Patients with Depression in Chile.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Major depression is a highly prevalent and severe mental disease. Despite the effective treatment options available, the risk of relapse is high. Interventions based on information and communication technologies generate innovative opportunities to provide support to patients after they completed treatment for depression.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This acceptability study evaluated the Internet-based program Apoyo, Seguimiento y Cuidado de Enfermedades a partir de Sistemas Operativos (ASCENSO) in terms of its feasibility and acceptability in a sample of 35 patients in Chile.
RESULTS: The study reveals high rates of acceptance and satisfaction among patients who actively used the program. As obstacles, patients mentioned technical problems, a lack of contact with other participants, and an insufficient connection between the program and the health service professionals.
CONCLUSIONS: ASCENSO appears to be a promising complement to regular care for depression. Following improvements of the program based on participants' feedback, future research should evaluate its efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: A survey of direct-to-consumer teledermatology services available to US patients: Explosive growth, opportunities and controversy.
Abstract: Introduction Direct-to-consumer (DTC) teledermatology is radically changing the way patients obtain dermatological care. Now, with a few clicks, patients can obtain dermatological consultations and prescription medications without a prior physician-patient relationship. To analyse all DTC teledermatology services available to US patients. Methods We performed Internet searches to identify DTC teledermatology services available through Internet webpages or through smartphone applications. For each service, the scope of care provided, cost, wait times, prescription policies and other relevant information were recorded. Results Twenty-two DTC teledermatology services are available to US patients in 45 states. Six (27%) services offer care from international physicians. Sixteen (73%) services allow patients to seek care for any reason, while six (27%) limit care to acne or anti-aging. The median reported response time for DTC teledermatology services is 48 hours from the time of patient request. The median consultation fee for companies providing care from US board-certified physicians is US$59. Across all services, consultation fees range from US$1.59 to US$250. Conclusions DTC teledermatology services are readily available to patients in most states. These services may reduce the cost of patient visits, expand access to care and increase patient convenience. However, the presence of services staffed by physicians who are not US board-certified, as well as the use of incautious language regarding prescription medications, is concerning.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Effectiveness of a Care Transition Intervention Among Multimorbid Patients.
Abstract: The purpose of this pilot study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of four different doses (based on patients' level of cognition and activation) of a home-based care transitions intervention compared with usual care at 2 and 6 months after hospital discharge to home for 126 adult patients with three or more chronic diseases. Health care utilization was measured, and a cost-effectiveness analysis was used to estimate incremental costs and quality-adjusted life-years associated with each intervention arm. At 6 months, results from this pilot study are very promising and support cost-effectiveness for Group 2-low cognition/high activation, Group 3-normal cognition/low activation, and Group 4-normal cognition/high activation patients. However, Group 1-low cognition/low activation needs a more intensive treatment than what was provided in the intervention, because of their low cognition and activation levels. Our intervention strategies provided to the groups would be scalable to a larger patient population and across different facilities.
Label Included: 0

Title: Using Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing to Establish a Tariff System for Home Health Care Services.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Monte Carlo Simulation Modeling of a Regional Stroke Team's Use of Telemedicine.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to evaluate operational policies that may improve the proportion of eligible stroke patients within a population who would receive intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and minimize time to treatment in eligible patients.
METHODS: In the context of a regional stroke team, the authors examined the effects of staff location and telemedicine deployment policies on the timeliness of thrombolytic treatment, and estimated the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of six different policies. A process map comprising the steps from recognition of stroke symptoms to intravenous administration of rt-PA was constructed using data from published literature combined with expert opinion. Six scenarios were investigated: telemedicine deployment (none, all, or outer-ring hospitals only) and staff location (center of region or anywhere in region). Physician locations were randomly generated based on their zip codes of residence and work. The outcomes of interest were onset-to-treatment (OTT) time, door-to-needle (DTN) time, and the proportion of patients treated within 3 hours. A Monte Carlo simulation of the stroke team care-delivery system was constructed based on a primary data set of 121 ischemic stroke patients who were potentially eligible for treatment with rt-PA.
RESULTS: With the physician located randomly in the region, deploying telemedicine at all hospitals in the region (compared with partial or no telemedicine) would result in the highest rates of treatment within 3 hours (80% vs. 75% vs. 70%) and the shortest OTT (148 vs. 164 vs. 176 minutes) and DTN (45 vs. 61 vs. 73 minutes) times. However, locating the on-call physician centrally coupled with partial telemedicine deployment (five of the 17 hospitals) would be most cost-effective with comparable eligibility and treatment times.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the potential societal benefits, continued efforts to deploy telemedicine appear warranted. Aligning the incentives between those who would have to fund the up-front technology investments and those who will benefit over time from reduced ongoing health care expenses will be necessary to fully realize the benefits of telemedicine for stroke care.
Label Included: 0

Title: Evaluation of Automated Teleretinal Screening Program for Diabetic Retinopathy.
Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Diabetic retinopathy is a leading cause of blindness, but its detrimental effects are preventable with early detection and treatment. Screening for diabetic retinopathy has the potential to increase the number of cases treated early, especially in populations with limited access to care.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of an automated algorithm in interpreting screening ophthalmoscopic photographs from patients with diabetes compared with a reading center interpretation.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Retrospective cohort analysis of 15,015 patients with type 1 or 2 diabetes in the Harris Health System in Harris County, Texas, who had undergone a retinal screening examination and nonmydriatic fundus photography via the Intelligent Retinal Imaging System (IRIS) from June 2013 to April 2014 were included. The IRIS-based interpretations were compared with manual interpretation. The IRIS algorithm population statistics were calculated.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Sensitivity and false-negative rate of the IRIS computer-based algorithm compared with reading center interpretation of the same images.
RESULTS: A total of 15 015 consecutive patients (aged 18-98 years); mean 54.3 years with known type 1 or 2 diabetes underwent nonmydriatic fundus photography for a diabetic retinopathy screening examination. The sensitivity of the IRIS algorithm in detecting sight-threatening diabetic eye disease compared with the reading center interpretation was 66.4% (95% CI, 62.8%-69.9%) with a false-negative rate of 2%. The specificity was 72.8% (95% CI, 72.0%-73.5%). In a population where 15.8% of people with diabetes have sight-threatening diabetic eye disease, the IRIS algorithm positive predictive value was 10.8% (95% CI, 9.6%-11.9%) and the negative predictive value was 97.8% (95% CI, 96.8%-98.6%).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this large urban setting, the IRIS computer algorithm-based screening program had a high sensitivity and a low false-negative rate, suggesting that it may be an effective alternative to conventional reading center image interpretation. The IRIS algorithm shows promise as a screening program, but algorithm refinement is needed to achieve better performance. Further studies of patient safety, cost-effectiveness, and widespread applications of this type of algorithm should be pursued to better understand the role of teleretinal imaging and automated analysis in the global health care system.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Utility Analysis of a Cardiac Telerehabilitation Program: The Teledialog Project.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation can reduce mortality of patients with cardiovascular disease, but a frequently low participation rate in rehabilitation programs has been found globally. The objective of the Teledialog study was to assess the cost-utility (CU) of a cardiac telerehabilitation (CTR) program. The aim of the intervention was to increase the patients' participation in the CTR program. At discharge, an individualized 3-month rehabilitation plan was formulated for each patient. At home, the patients measured their own blood pressure, pulse, weight, and steps taken for 3 months.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The analysis was carried out together with a randomized controlled trial with 151 patients during 2012-2014. Costs of the intervention were estimated with a health sector perspective following international guidelines for CU. Quality of life was assessed using the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey.
RESULTS: The rehabilitation activities were approximately the same in the two groups, but the number of contacts with the physiotherapist was higher among the intervention group. The mean total cost per patient was €1,700 higher in the intervention group. The quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gain was higher in the intervention group, but the difference was not statistically significant. The incremental CU ratio was more than €400,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though the rehabilitation activities increased, the program does not appear to be cost-effective. The intervention itself was not costly (less than €500), and increasing the number of patients may show reduced costs of the devices and make the CTR more cost-effective. Telerehabilitation can increase participation, but the intervention, in its current form, does not appear to be cost-effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: False economies in home-based parenteral antibiotic treatment: a health-economic case study of management of lower-limb cellulitis in Australia.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: The majority of healthcare costs accrued managing cellulitis can be attributed to the small proportion of patients treated with parenteral antibiotics. Hospital in the home (HITH) instead of or following initial inpatient treatment is a safe and effective alternative, but there are few data evaluating its cost-effectiveness for cellulitis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Our retrospective cohort study included all treatment episodes (by either HITH or an inpatient service for >24 h) with an ICD-10 primary diagnosis code of lower-leg cellulitis at a tertiary-level health service in Melbourne, Australia over 12 months (2012-13). Data included demography, social factors and ICD-10 codes mapped to major comorbidities constituting the Charlson comorbidity index (CCI). Differences in length of stay (LOS) and individual clinical costing (ICC) between HITH- and non-HITH-treated patients were tested with univariable and multivariable (generalized linear model) analyses.
RESULTS: For 328 admissions in 294 patients, the average per-day costs were AU$431 for HITH and AU$761 for inpatient care. For 124 patients (38%) treated in HITH, both LOS [mean (95% CI) 7.48 days (6.76-8.20 days) versus 5.82 days (3.45-8.18 days)] and ICC [mean (95% CI) AU$5873 (AU$5212-AU$6534) versus AU$5196 (AU$4567- AU$5824)] were higher than those for patients with solely inpatient care. In multivariable analysis controlling for age, comorbidity, carer support and language, HITH remained associated with significantly longer LOS [1.63-fold (95% CI: 1.24- to 2.13-fold): P < 0.001] and non-significantly with higher cost [1.14-fold (95% CI: 0.97- to 1.34-fold): P = 0.11].
CONCLUSIONS: Management of cellulitis represents a substantial cost burden for hospital services. Modest per-day cost savings from HITH can be offset by much longer HITH LOS.
Label Included: 0

Title: A New mHealth application to support treatment of sleep apnoea patients.
Abstract: Introduction Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the first-choice treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), but adherence is frequently suboptimal. Innovative, patient-centred interventions are, therefore, needed to enhance compliance. Due to its low cost and ubiquity, mobile health (mHealth) technology seems particularly suited for this purpose. We endeavoured to develop an mHealth application called "APPnea," aimed at promoting patient self-monitoring of CPAP treatment. We then assessed the feasibility and acceptability of APPnea in a group of OSA patients. Methods Consecutive OSA patients used APPnea for six weeks. APPnea gave patients daily reminders to answer three questions about their OSA treatment (CPAP use, physical activity, and diet) and prompted them to upload their body weight weekly. Answers were saved to a secure server for further analysis. After completing the study, patients gave their anonymous opinions about APPnea. Results We enrolled 60 patients with OSA receiving CPAP treatment. The mean age was 56 ± 10 years and the apnoea-hypopnea index was 47 ± 25 events/hour. In total, 63% of participants completed the daily questionnaire for more than 66% of the study period. Objective CPAP compliance was generally high (5.3 ± 1.6 hours/night). In a subset of 38 patients naïve to CPAP, those who used APPnea regularly had significantly higher CPAP compliance. Satisfaction levels were high for the majority of users. Conclusion This mHealth intervention is not only feasible but also satisfactory to patients. Although larger randomized trials and cost-effectiveness studies should be performed, this study shows that APPnea could promote participation and improve compliance among patients with OSA, thereby improving outcomes.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth Implementation in a Skilled Nursing Facility: Case Report for Physical Therapist Practice in Washington.
Abstract: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Telehealth is defined as the delivery of health-related services and information via telecommunication technologies. The purposes of this case report are: (1) to describe the development, implementation, and evaluation of a telehealth approach for meeting physical therapist supervision requirements in a skilled nursing facility (SNF) in Washington and (2) to explore clinical and human factors of physical therapist practice in an SNF delivered via telehealth.
CASE DESCRIPTION: In 2009, Infinity Rehab conducted a pilot program to determine whether telehealth could be used to meet physical therapist supervision requirements in an SNF. In 2011, language allowing telehealth physical therapy was approved by the Washington Board of Physical Therapy (Board). In 2014-2015, telehealth outcomes were evaluated in a 51-person sample at an Infinity Rehab SNF. Cost savings of telehealth implementation from 2011 to 2015 were estimated.
OUTCOMES: The Board deemed the telehealth pilot program a success and subsequently established telehealth practice language for physical therapy. Both human factors and clinical outcomes were required to implement a successful telehealth practice. Clinical outcomes and user satisfaction in telehealth and nontelehealth groups were equivalent. Cost savings were identified.
DISCUSSION: Human factors, such as the need for provider education in appropriate bedside manner with a telehealth session, were identified. Since 2011, more than 1,000 telehealth physical therapy sessions were conducted at Infinity Rehab SNFs in Washington State. In the future, alternative payment models focused on valued-based clinical outcomes may facilitate wider telehealth adoption in physical therapy. Future research on efficacy and cost-effectiveness is needed to promote broader adoption of telehealth physical therapy in SNFs. This experience demonstrates that telehealth implementation in an SNF for the purpose of physical therapy re-evaluation is a feasible alternative to in-person encounters.
Label Included: 0

Title: Maximizing post-stroke upper limb rehabilitation using a novel telerehabilitation interactive virtual reality system in the patient's home: study protocol of a randomized clinical trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Telerehabilitation (TR), or the provision of rehabilitation services from a distance using telecommunication tools such as the Internet, can contribute to ensure that patients receive the best care at the right time. This study aims to assess the effect of an interactive virtual reality (VR) system that allows ongoing rehabilitation of the upper extremity (UE) following a stroke, while the person is in their own home, with offline monitoring and feedback from a therapist at a distance.
METHODS/DESIGN: A single-blind (evaluator is blind to group assignment) two-arm randomized controlled trial is proposed, with participants who have had a stroke and are no longer receiving rehabilitation services randomly allocated to: (1) 4-week written home exercise program, i.e. usual care discharge home program or (2) a 4-week home-based TR exercise program using VR in addition to usual care i.e. treatment group. Motor recovery of the UE will be assessed using the Fugl-Meyer Assessment-UE and the Box and Block tests. To determine the efficacy of the system in terms of functional recovery, the Motor Activity Log, a self-reported measure of UE use will be used. Impact on quality of life will be determined using the Stroke Impact Scale-16. Lastly, a preliminary cost-effectiveness analysis will be conducted using costs and outcomes for all groups.
DISCUSSION: Findings will contribute to evidence regarding the use of TR and VR to provide stroke rehabilitation services from a distance. This approach can enhance continuity of care once patients are discharged from rehabilitation, in order to maximize their recovery beyond the current available services.
Label Included: 0

Title: Structured Home-Based Exercise Versus Invasive Treatment: A Mission Impossible? A Pilot Randomized Study in Elderly Patients With Intermittent Claudication.
Abstract: We compared the effects of an original structured home-based exercise program and revascularization in elderly patients with peripheral arterial disease over a 4-month period. Twenty-seven participants (n = 21; age = 68 ± 7 years) with moderate to severe claudication were randomized into (1) a test in-train out group (Ti-To; n = 18) that performed a home-based walking program prescribed and controlled at the hospital or (2) a revascularization group (Rev; n = 9) that underwent an endovascular and/or surgical procedure. The primary end point was quality of life as evaluated by the physical component summary (PCS) score of the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36 questionnaire. Secondary outcome measures included initial claudication distance (ICD) and absolute claudication distance (ACD), 6-minute walk distance (6MWD) and pain-free walk distance (PFWD), ankle-brachial index (ABI), and cost per walking meter gained. The PCS score significantly increased for both treatments at follow-up without a significant intergroup difference, as did ICD, ACD, and PFWD. The 6MWD and ABI significantly improved in the Rev group, and the Ti-To group exhibited a markedly lower cost per meter gained. The comparable effects of the 2 treatments need to be confirmed in a larger, randomized controlled trial.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-optimization in the treatment of multidrug resistant tuberculosis in Nigeria.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost of facility-based MDR TB care (F) to home-based care (H) from the perspective of the Nigerian national health system.
METHODS: We assessed the expected costs of the two MDR TB treatment approaches using a decision-analytic model with a follow-up of 6 months. MDR TB treatment outcomes were obtained from a systematic review of randomised clinical trials. The outcomes of interest included treatment success, treatment failure, treatment default and mortality and did not vary significantly between the two alternatives. Treatment costs included the cost of the following: drug therapy (F, H), hospital stay (F), nurse care (F, H), physician care (F), nursing facility (F) and transport to the healthcare provider (H). Finally, we estimated the potential cost savings associated with home-based treatment for all patients starting MDR TB treatment in Nigeria.
RESULTS: The average expected total treatment cost for a Nigerian patient treated for MDR TB was estimated at US2095 for facility - based care and 1535 for home-based care, a potential saving of 25%. One of the major drivers of this difference is significantly more intensive, and therefore more costly, nursing care in hospitals. In 2013, a total of 426 patients were initiated on facility-based MDR TB treatment in Nigeria. Thus, the potential savings through home-based care are US$ 223 204 per year.
CONCLUSION: In Nigeria, treatment of MDR TB using home-based care is expected to result in similar patient outcomes at markedly reduced public health costs as facility-based care.
Label Included: 0

Title: A cost-effectiveness study of person-centered integrated heart failure and palliative home care: Based on a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Previous economic studies of person-centered palliative home care have been conducted mainly among patients with cancer. Studies on cost-effectiveness of advanced home care for patients with severe heart failure are lacking when a diagnosis of heart failure is the only main disease as the inclusion criterion.
AIM: To assess the cost-effectiveness of a new concept of care called person-centered integrated heart failure and palliative home care.
DESIGN: A randomized controlled trial was conducted from January 2011 to 2013 at a center in Sweden. Data collection included cost estimates for health care and the patients' responses to the EQ-5D quality of life instrument.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Patients with chronic and severe heart failure were randomly assigned to an intervention (n = 36) or control (n = 36) group. The intervention group received the Palliative Advanced Home Care and Heart Failure Care intervention over 6 months. The control group received the same care that is usually provided by a primary health care center or heart failure clinic at the hospital.
RESULTS: EQ-5D data indicated that the intervention resulted in a gain of 0.25 quality-adjusted life years, and cost analysis showed a significant cost reduction with the Palliative Advanced Home Care and Heart Failure Care intervention. Even if costs for staffing are higher than usual care, this is more than made up for by the reduced need for hospital-based care. This intervention made it possible for the county council to use €50,000 for other needs.
CONCLUSION: The Palliative Advanced Home Care and Heart Failure Care working mode saves financial resources and should be regarded as very cost-effective.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-benefit assessment of using electronic health records data for clinical research versus current practices: Contribution of the Electronic Health Records for Clinical Research (EHR4CR) European Project.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The widespread adoption of electronic health records (EHR) provides a new opportunity to improve the efficiency of clinical research. The European EHR4CR (Electronic Health Records for Clinical Research) 4-year project has developed an innovative technological platform to enable the re-use of EHR data for clinical research. The objective of this cost-benefit assessment (CBA) is to assess the value of EHR4CR solutions compared to current practices, from the perspective of sponsors of clinical trials.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A CBA model was developed using an advanced modeling approach. The costs of performing three clinical research scenarios (S) applied to a hypothetical Phase II or III oncology clinical trial workflow (reference case) were estimated under current and EHR4CR conditions, namely protocol feasibility assessment (S1), patient identification for recruitment (S2), and clinical study execution (S3). The potential benefits were calculated considering that the estimated reduction in actual person-time and costs for performing EHR4CR S1, S2, and S3 would accelerate time to market (TTM). Probabilistic sensitivity analyses using Monte Carlo simulations were conducted to manage uncertainty.
RESULTS: Should the estimated efficiency gains achieved with the EHR4CR platform translate into faster TTM, the expected benefits for the global pharmaceutical oncology sector were estimated at €161.5m (S1), €45.7m (S2), €204.5m (S1+S2), €1906m (S3), and up to €2121.8m (S1+S2+S3) when the scenarios were used sequentially.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that optimizing clinical trial design and execution with the EHR4CR platform would generate substantial added value for pharmaceutical industry, as main sponsors of clinical trials in Europe, and beyond.
Label Included: 0

Title: Short article: Remicade infusions at home: an alternative setting of infliximab therapy for patients with Crohn's disease.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Infliximab maintenance treatment for Crohn's disease (CD) consists of intravenous infusions that are usually given at 6-8-week intervals. We aimed to evaluate whether home-based infliximab infusions could offer a useful and safe alternative for the management of CD patients.
METHODS: Adult CD patients receiving infliximab maintenance treatment at the Academic Medical Center in Amsterdam were invited to receive their infusions at home for the duration of 1 year. Patients had to be in clinical remission and should have had no adverse events during previous infusions. Patient satisfaction and experience were studied. Costs were analyzed and compared with hospital-based infliximab infusions.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients were invited, of whom 13 (45%) wanted to participate. Of the participants, 54% were female, and the median age was 33 years. In total, 59 infliximab infusions were administered at home at a median dose of 360 mg. The median rating of patient satisfaction was 8 on a scale from 1 to 10 for both home and hospital treatment settings. An important observation was that patients' willingness to participate would have been 70% if the possibility of receiving infusions at home outside office hours had been offered. Costs of infliximab infusions at home were €229 per infusion compared with €284 at the infusion clinic (excluding drug costs).
CONCLUSION: Home-based infliximab infusions were associated with a cost saving of €55 per infusion. Most participants were satisfied and would recommend home-based infusions to others. Infliximab treatment at home might be recommended as routine care for CD patients.
Label Included: 0

Title: Critical Care Implications of the Affordable Care Act.
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: To provide an overview of key elements of the Affordable Care Act. To evaluate ways in which the Affordable Care Act will likely impact the practice of critical care medicine. To describe strategies that may help health systems and providers effectively adapt to changes brought about by the Affordable Care Act.
DATA SOURCES AND SYNTHESIS: Data sources for this concise review include search results from the PubMed and Embase databases, as well as sources relevant to public policy such as the text of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and reports of the Congressional Budget Office. As all of the Affordable Care Act's provisions will not be fully implemented until 2019, we also drew upon cost, population, and utilization projections, as well as the experience of existing state-based healthcare reforms.
CONCLUSIONS: The Affordable Care Act represents the furthest reaching regulatory changes in the U.S. healthcare system since the 1965 Medicare and Medicaid provisions of the Social Security Act. The Affordable Care Act aims to expand health insurance coverage to millions of Americans and place an emphasis on quality and cost-effectiveness of care. From models which link pay and performance to those which center on episodic care, the Affordable Care Act outlines sweeping changes to health systems, reimbursement structures, and the delivery of critical care. Staffing models that include daily rounding by an intensivist, palliative care integration, and expansion of the role of telemedicine in areas where intensivists are inaccessible are potential strategies that may improve quality and profitability of ICU care in the post-Affordable Care Act era.
Label Included: 0

Title: Multidisciplinary nutritional support for undernutrition in nursing home and home-care: A cluster randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of multidisciplinary nutritional support for undernutrition in older adults in nursing home and home-care identified with the validated Eating Validation Scheme (EVS).
METHODS: An 11 wk cluster randomized trial with a home-care (3 clusters) or nursing home (3 clusters) setting as the unit of randomization. Before starting the study, a train-the-trainer course was performed to educate the nutrition coordinators. In addition to the nutrition coordinator, the participants assigned to the intervention group strategy received multidisciplinary nutrition support. Focus was on treatment of the potentially modifiable nutritional risk factors identified with the EVS, by involving the physiotherapist, registered dietitian, and occupational therapist, as relevant and independent of the municipality's ordinary assessment and referral system. Outcome parameters were quality of life (by means of EuroQol-5D-3L), physical performance (30-seconds chair stand), nutritional status (weight and hand-grip strength), oral care, fall incidents, hospital admissions, rehabilitation stay, moving to nursing homes (participants from home-care), and mortality.
RESULTS: Respectively, 55 (46 from 2 home-care clusters) and 40 (18 from 1 home-care cluster) were identified with the EVS and comprised the intervention and control group. A difference after 11 wk in quality of life (0.758 [0.222] versus 0.534 [0.355], P = 0.001), 30-seconds chair stand (47% versus 17% improved, P = 0.005) and oral care (1.1 [0.3] versus 1.3 [0.5], P = 0.021) was observed. There was a almost significant difference in mortality (2% versus 13%, P = 0.079).
CONCLUSIONS: Multidisciplinary nutritional support in older adults in nursing home and home-care could have a positive effect on quality of life, muscle strength, and oral care.
Label Included: 0

Title: What Is the Cost of Meaningful Use?
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Design and Performance of a Low-Cost Telemetric Laparoscopic Tactile Grasper.
Abstract: Tactile feedback is completely lost in laparoscopic surgery, which would provide information about tissue compliance, texture, structural features, and foreign bodies. We developed a system with artificial tactile feedback for laparoscopic surgery that consists of a telemetric tactile laparoscopic grasper, a remote PC with customized software, and a commercial video-mixer. A standard, nonsensorized laparoscopic grasper was customized to allow the integration of a tactile sensor and its electronics. The tactile sensor and the electronics module were designed to be detachable from the instrument. These parts are lightweight and wireless, thus not impeding the use of the device as surgical instrument. The remaining system components used to generate visualization of the tactile data do not influence the workflow in the operating room. The overall system design of the described instrumentation allows for easy implementation in an operating room environment. The fabrication of the tactile sensor is relatively easy and the production costs are low. With this telemetric laparoscopic grasper instrument, systematic preclinical studies can be performed in which surgeons execute surgical tasks that are derived from clinical reality. The experience gained from these investigations could then be used to define the requirements for any further development of artificial tactile feedback systems.
Label Included: 0

Title: The cost-effectiveness of telestroke in the Pacific Northwest region of the USA.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Using real-world data from the Providence Oregon Telestroke Network, we examined the cost-effectiveness of telestroke from both the spoke and hub perspectives by level of financial responsibility for these costs and by patient stroke severity.
METHODS: We constructed a decision analytic model using patient-level clinical and financial data from before and after telestroke implementation. Effectiveness was measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and was combined with cost per patient outcomes to calculate incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Outcomes were generated (a) overall; (b) by stroke severity, via the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at time of arrival, defined as low (<5), medium (5-14) and high (>15); and (c) by percentage of implementation costs paid by spokes (0%, 50%, 100%).
RESULTS: Data for 864 patients, 98 pre- and 766 post-implementation, were used to parameterize our model. From the spoke perspective, telestroke had ICERs of US$1322/QALY, US$25,991/QALY and US$50,687/QALY when responsible for 0%, 50%, and 100% of these costs, respectively. Overall, the ICER ranged from US$22,363/QALY to US$71,703/QALY from the hub perspective.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results support previous models showing good value, overall. However, costs and ICERs varied by stroke severity, with telestroke being most cost-effective for severe strokes. Telestroke was least cost effective for the spokes if spokes paid for more than half of implementation costs.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Evaluation of Telemedicine for Patients in ICUs.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Despite telemedicine's potential to improve patients' health outcomes and reduce costs in the ICU, hospitals have been slow to introduce telemedicine in the ICU due to high up-front costs and mixed evidence on effectiveness. This study's first aim was to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of telemedicine in the ICU, compared with ICU without telemedicine, from the healthcare system perspective. The second aim was to examine potential cost saving of telemedicine in the ICU through probabilistic analyses and break-even analyses.
DESIGN: Simulation analyses performed by standard decision models.
SETTING: Hypothetical ICU defined by the U.S. literature.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical adult patients in ICU defined by the U.S. literature.
INTERVENTIONS: The intervention was the introduction of telemedicine in the ICU, which was assumed to affect per-patient per-hospital-stay ICU cost and hospital mortality. Telemedicine in the ICU operation costs included the telemedicine equipment-installation (start-up) costs with 5-year depreciation, maintenance costs, and clinician staffing costs. Telemedicine in the ICU effectiveness was measured by cumulative quality-adjusted life years for 5 years after ICU discharge.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The base case cost-effectiveness analysis estimated telemedicine in the ICU to extend 0.011 quality-adjusted life years with an incremental cost of $516 per patient compared with ICU without telemedicine, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $45,320 per additional quality-adjusted life year (= $516/0.011). The probabilistic cost-effectiveness analysis estimated an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $50,265 with a wide 95% CI from a negative value (suggesting cost savings) to $375,870. These probabilistic analyses projected that cost saving is achieved 37% of 1,000 iterations. Cost saving is also feasible if the per-patient per-hospital-stay operational cost and physician cost were less than $422 and less than $155, respectively, based on break-even analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses suggest that telemedicine in the ICU is cost-effective in most cases and cost saving in some cases. The thresholds of cost and effectiveness, estimated by break-even analyses, help hospitals determine the impact of telemedicine in the ICU and potential cost saving.
Label Included: 1

Title: BRAVO esophageal pH monitoring: more cost-effective than empiric medical therapy for suspected gastroesophageal reflux.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Early referral for catheter-based esophageal pH monitoring is more cost-effective than empiric proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy to diagnose gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). We hypothesize that BRAVO wireless pH monitoring will also demonstrate substantial cost-savings compared to empiric PPI therapy, given its superior sensitivity and comfort.
METHODS: We reviewed 100 consecutive patients who underwent wireless pH monitoring for suspected GERD at our institution. A cost model and a cost equivalence calculation were generated. Cost-saving analyses were performed for both esophageal and extraesophageal symptoms.
RESULTS: Eighty-seven patients were available for analysis. Median PPI use prior to referral was 215 weeks (range 0-520). Forty-three patients (49 %) had BRAVO results diagnosing GERD; 98 % of these had esophageal symptoms. Patients with negative BRAVO studies had a median of 113 (0-520) weeks of unnecessary PPI therapy. Cost-savings ranged from $1048 to $15,853 per patient, depending on sensitivity (75-95 %), PPI dosage, and brand. Maximum cost-savings occurred in patients with extraesophageal symptoms ($2948-$31,389 per patient). The PPI cost equivalence of BRAVO placement was 36 and 6 weeks for low- and high-dose therapy, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: BRAVO wireless pH testing is more cost-effective than prolonged empiric medical management for GERD and should be incorporated early in the treatment algorithm.
Label Included: 0

Title: Long-Term Intrathecal Analgesia With a Wireless Analgesia Pump System in the Home Care of Patients With Advanced Cancer.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Intrathecal analgesia is more effective than conservative delivery methods such as drugs administered orally or intravenously. Programmable devices such as Medtronic's SynchroMed systems have often been applied for long-term intrathecal analgesia. However, the totally implanted systems are very expensive in China. Considering cost-effectiveness, a reliable transmission protocol for a ZigBee-Based wireless analgesia pump system was used for long-term intrathecal analgesia in the home care of patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively investigated the efficacy, side effects, and complications of long-term intrathecal analgesia in the home care of patients via the wireless analgesia pump system. Follow-up visits occurred monthly for the initial 3 months after implantation and then every 3 months until patient death, withdrawal from the study, or removal of the device by a designated staff. At each follow-up visit, daily average pain score, pain frequency, satisfaction level, Spitzer Quality of Life Index, and side effects for every patient were recorded.
RESULTS: Pain intensity and frequency were significantly decreased by intrathecal analgesia via a wireless analgesia pump system. There were no significant differences in the satisfaction levels between hospitalization and each follow-up visit. The Spitzer Quality of Life Indexes were improved compared with patients who were hospitalized. No serious side effects were observed in this study.
CONCLUSION: Intrathecal analgesia is an effective and safe method for control of refractory cancer pain, and wireless analgesia pump systems can be safely and effectively used for long-term intrathecal analgesia management in the home care of patients with advanced cancer.
Label Included: 0

Title: Optimizing and validating the technical infrastructure of a novel tele-cystoscopy system.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Bladder cancer is the most costly malignancy to manage per capita due to the technical nature and intensity of follow-up. There are few urologists in rural areas, often necessitating that patients travel hours to receive follow-up care multiple times per year. We plan to train registered nurses and allied health professionals to perform cystoscopies which are monitored and interpreted in real-time by board-certified urologists. The key is to ensure optimal picture resolution to guarantee this technology is not inferior to traditional cystoscopy. Our objective was to develop the technical infrastructure needed for a tele-cystoscopy system through assessment of the transmitted video quality using expert reviewers and crowd-sourcing.
METHODS: All combinations of the tele-cystoscopy system were systematically tested using a single Thiel cadaver. The videos were reviewed by expert urologists and general reviewers using a crowd-sourcing website. The video quality responses were assessed to determine concordance between each set of reviewers, and to determine the optimal equipment that should be selected for the tele-cystoscopy system.
RESULTS: Of eight equipment combinations, only two were of high enough quality to be appropriate for medical use. We found there to be strong concordance of responses between the expert and crowd-sourced responses. The trade-offs between cost and tele-cystoscopy system component quality were compared with efficiency frontiers to elucidate the optimal system.
DISCUSSION: We created and tested the feasibility of a tele-cystoscopy system that was deemed suitable for medical diagnosis by a group of experts. We further validated tele-cystoscopy video quality using both experts and recently validated crowd-sourcing.
Label Included: 0

Title: A Systematic Review of Economic Evaluations of Pacemaker Telemonitoring Systems.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Over the last decade, telemedicine applied to pacemaker monitoring has undergone extraordinary growth. It is not known if telemonitoring is more or less efficient than conventional monitoring. The aim of this study was to carry out a systematic review analyzing the available evidence on resource use and health outcomes in both follow-up modalities.
METHODS: We searched 11 databases and included studies published up until November 2014. The inclusion criteria were: a) experimental or observational design; b) studies based on complete economic evaluations; c) patients with pacemakers, and d) telemonitoring compared with conventional hospital monitoring.
RESULTS: Seven studies met the inclusion criteria, providing information on 2852 patients, with a mean age of 81 years. The main indication for device implantation was atrioventricular block. With telemonitoring, cardiovascular events were detected and treated 2 months earlier than with conventional monitoring, thus reducing length of hospital stay by 34% and reducing routine and emergency hospital visits as well. There were no significant intergroup differences in perceived quality of life or number of adverse events. The cost of telemonitoring was 60% lower than that of conventional hospital monitoring.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with conventional monitoring, cardiovascular events were detected earlier and the number or hospitalizations and hospital visits was reduced with pacemaker telemonitoring. In addition, the costs associated with follow-up were lower with telemonitoring.
Label Included: 0

Title: Remote Ambulatory Management of Veterans with Obstructive Sleep Apnea.
Abstract: STUDY OBJECTIVES: Despite significant medical sequelae of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), the condition remains undiagnosed and untreated in many affected individuals. We explored the feasibility of a comprehensive, telemedicine-based OSA management pathway in a community-based Veteran cohort.
METHODS: This prospective, parallel-group randomized pilot study assessed feasibility of a telemedicine-based pathway for OSA evaluation and management in comparison to a more traditional, in-person care model. The study included 60 Veterans at the Philadelphia Veterans Affairs Medical Center and two affiliated community-based outpatient clinics. Telemedicine pathway feasibility, acceptability, and outcomes were assessed through a variety of quantitative (Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire, dropout rates, positive airway pressure [PAP] adherence rates, participant satisfaction ratings) and qualitative (verbal feedback) metrics.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in functional outcome changes, patient satisfaction, dropout rates, or objectively measured PAP adherence between groups after 3 months of treatment. Telemedicine participants showed greater improvement in mental health scores, and their feedback was overwhelmingly positive.
CONCLUSIONS: Our pilot study suggests that telemedicine-based management of OSA patients is feasible in terms of patient functional outcomes and overall satisfaction with care. Future studies should include larger populations to further elucidate these findings while assessing provider- and patient-related cost effectiveness.
Label Included: 0

Title: Choice of statistical model for cost-effectiveness analysis and covariate adjustment: empirical application of prominent models and assessment of their results.
Abstract: CONTEXT: Statistical models employed in analysing patient-level cost and effectiveness data need to be flexible enough to adjust for any imbalanced covariates, account for correlations between key parameters, and accommodate potential skewed distributions of costs and/or effects. We compare prominent statistical models for cost-effectiveness analysis alongside randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and covariate adjustment to assess their performance and accuracy using data from a large RCT.
METHOD: Seemingly unrelated regressions, linear regression of net monetary benefits, and Bayesian generalized linear models with various distributional assumptions were used to analyse data from the TASMINH2 trial. Each model adjusted for covariates prognostic of costs and outcomes.
RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness results were notably sensitive to model choice. Models assuming normally distributed costs and effects provided a poor fit to the data, and potentially misleading inference. Allowing for a beta distribution captured the true incremental difference in effects and changed the decision as to which treatment is preferable.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that Bayesian generalized linear models which allow for non-normality in estimation offer an attractive tool for researchers undertaking cost-effectiveness analyses. The flexibility provided by such methods allows the researcher to analyse patient-level data which are not necessarily normally distributed, while at the same time it enables assessing the effect of various baseline covariates on cost-effectiveness results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-analysis of teledentistry in residential aged care facilities.
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this research was to conduct a cost-analysis, from a public healthcare perspective, comparing the cost and benefits of face-to-face patient examination assessments conducted by a dentist at a residential aged care facility (RACF) situated in rural areas of the Australian state of Victoria, with two teledentistry approaches utilizing virtual oral examination.
METHODS: The costs associated with implementing and operating the teledentistry approach were identified and measured using 2014 prices in Australian dollars. Costs were measured as direct intervention costs and programme costs. A population of 100 RACF residents was used as a basis to estimate the cost of oral examination and treatment plan development for the traditional face-to-face model vs. two teledentistry models: an asynchronous review and treatment plan preparation; and real-time communication with a remotely located oral health professional.
RESULTS: It was estimated that if 100 residents received an asynchronous oral health assessment and treatment plan, the net cost from a healthcare perspective would be AU$32.35 (AU$27.19-AU$38.49) per resident. The total cost of the conventional face-to-face examinations by a dentist would be AU$36.59 ($30.67-AU$42.98) per resident using realistic assumptions. Meanwhile, the total cost of real-time remote oral examination would be AU$41.28 (AU$34.30-AU$48.87) per resident.
DISCUSSION: Teledental asynchronous patient assessments were the lowest cost service model. Access to oral health professionals is generally low in RACFs; however, the real-time consultation could potentially achieve better outcomes due to two-way communication between the nurse and a remote oral health professional via health promotion/disease prevention delivered in conjunction with the oral examination.
Label Included: 0

Title: Scale Matters: A Cost-Outcome Analysis of an m-Health Intervention in Malawi.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The primary objectives of this study are to determine cost per user and cost per contact with users of a mobile health (m-health) intervention. The secondary objectives are to map costs to changes in maternal, newborn, and child health (MNCH) and to estimate costs of alternate implementation and usage scenarios.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A base cost model, constructed from recurrent costs and selected capital costs, was used to estimate average cost per user and per contact of an m-health intervention. This model was mapped to statistically significant changes in MNCH intermediate outcomes to determine the cost of improvements in MNCH indicators. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to estimate costs in alternate scenarios.
RESULTS: The m-health intervention cost $29.33 per user and $4.33 per successful contact. The average cost for each user experiencing a change in an MNCH indicator ranged from $67 to $355. The sensitivity analyses showed that cost per user could be reduced by 48% if the service were to operate at full capacity.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe that the intervention, operating at scale, has potential to be a cost-effective method for improving maternal and child health indicators.
Label Included: 0

Title: Cost-Utility and Cost-Effectiveness Analyses of Face-to-Face Versus Telephone-Based Nonpharmacologic Multidisciplinary Treatments for Patients With Generalized Osteoarthritis.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate, from a societal perspective, the cost utility and cost effectiveness of a nonpharmacologic face-to-face treatment program compared with a telephone-based treatment program for patients with generalized osteoarthritis (GOA).
METHODS: An economic evaluation was carried out alongside a randomized clinical trial involving 147 patients with GOA. Program costs were estimated from time registrations. One-year medical and nonmedical costs were estimated using cost questionnaires. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were estimated using the EuroQol (EQ) classification system, EQ rating scale, and the Short Form 6D (SF-6D). Daily function was measured using the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) disability index (DI). Cost and QALY/effect differences were analyzed using multilevel regression analysis and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: Medical costs of the face-to-face treatment and telephone-based treatment were estimated at €387 and €252, respectively. The difference in total societal costs was nonsignificantly in favor of the face-to-face program (difference €708; 95% confidence interval [95% CI] -€5,058, €3,642). QALYs were similar for both groups according to the EQ, but were significantly in favor of the face-to-face group, according to the SF-6D (difference 0.022 [95% CI 0.000, 0.045]). Daily function was similar according to the HAQ DI. Since both societal costs and QALYs/effects were in favor of the face-to-face program, the economic assessment favored this program, regardless of society's willingness to pay. There was a 65-90% chance that the face-to-face program had better cost utility and a 60-70% chance of being cost effective.
CONCLUSION: This economic evaluation from a societal perspective showed that a nonpharmacologic, face-to-face treatment program for patients with GOA was likely to be cost effective, relative to a telephone-based program.
Label Included: 0

Title: Effect of comprehensive cardiac telerehabilitation on one-year cardiovascular rehospitalization rate, medical costs and quality of life: A cost-effectiveness analysis.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Notwithstanding the cardiovascular disease epidemic, current budgetary constraints do not allow for budget expansion of conventional cardiac rehabilitation programmes. Consequently, there is an increasing need for cost-effectiveness studies of alternative strategies such as telerehabilitation. The present study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of a comprehensive cardiac telerehabilitation programme.
DESIGN AND METHODS: This multi-centre randomized controlled trial comprised 140 cardiac rehabilitation patients, randomized (1:1) to a 24-week telerehabilitation programme in addition to conventional cardiac rehabilitation (intervention group) or to conventional cardiac rehabilitation alone (control group). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated based on intervention and health care costs (incremental cost), and the differential incremental quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: The total average cost per patient was significantly lower in the intervention group (€2156 ± €126) than in the control group (€2720 ± €276) (p = 0.01) with an overall incremental cost of €-564.40. Dividing this incremental cost by the baseline adjusted differential incremental QALYs (0.026 QALYs) yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of €-21,707/QALY. The number of days lost due to cardiovascular rehospitalizations in the intervention group (0.33 ± 0.15) was significantly lower than in the control group (0.79 ± 0.20) (p = 0.037).
CONCLUSIONS: This paper shows the addition of cardiac telerehabilitation to conventional centre-based cardiac rehabilitation to be more effective and efficient than centre-based cardiac rehabilitation alone. These results are useful for policy makers charged with deciding how limited health care resources should best be allocated in the era of exploding need.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of long-term use of eHealth systems in adolescents with type 1 diabetes treated with sensor-augmented pump therapy.
Abstract: Telemedicine in diabetes includes telemonitoring and transmission of important data (self monitoring of blood glucose data, insulin therapy, pump setting, etc.) from the patient s home to the diabetic unit, with a real-time health feedback. Moreover, an eHealth approach is thought to facilitate diabetes management and to improve compliance to CSII/SAP treatment in adolescents, but to date, limited literature related to this topic is available and long-term studies are still lacking. The main aim of this study was to compare the long-term effect on glycometabolic control of eHealth intervention and traditional care in T1DM SAP-treated adolescents. In our study we demonstrated a favorable impact of monthly teleassistance on treatment compliance. Adolescents receiving frequent feedback provided by the medicalmultidisciplinary team, due to the telemonitoring, resulted more compliant in self-management of diabetes. In particular, the medical team feedback resulted in interventions on behavioral errors and insulin therapy adjustments, leading to an improved glycometabolic control.
Label Included: 0

Title: Impact of Question Content on e-Consultation Outcomes.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: By facilitating direct communication of primary care providers (PCPs) with specialists for advice, electronic consult (e-consult) services can reduce the need for patients to wait for and travel to face-to-face consultations with specialists. An association between avoiding face-to-face referrals using an e-consult service and specific content within each e-consult has not been rigorously explored.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cases submitted to the Champlain Building Access to Specialists through eConsultation service between April 2011 to May 2013 were evaluated. Factors analyzed include question type (e.g., diagnosis or management), formulation (if interventions or outcomes were specified), and the addressed specialty. An avoided referral was present if the PCP indicated so in a mandatory close-out survey. A discrepancy was present if the PCP made a referral when the specialist did not indicate one was necessary, or if the PCP did not request a referral despite the specialist recommending one.
RESULTS: There were 426 (40%) avoided referrals among 1,055 cases analyzed. Questions associated with the highest avoided referral rates included ones pertaining to diagnosis (44%), nonspecific requests for direction (44%), questions without specified interventions or outcomes (47%), and dermatology cases (49.5%). Specialists agreed on the need for a referral in 82% of cases, with most discrepancies due to the PCP making a referral without the specialist recommending one.
CONCLUSIONS: Referral outcomes are associated with the type of question being asked, the formulation of each question, and the specialty being addressed. Discrepancies among PCPs and specialists regarding which patients require face-to-face referrals may help identify knowledge gaps and guide professional development.
Label Included: 0

Title: The Impact of Technology-Based Interventions on Informal Caregivers of Stroke Survivors: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: This article is a systematic review of the impact of technology-based intervention on outcomes related to care providers for those who survived a stroke.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Literature was identified in the PubMed, PsycINFO, Scopus, and Cochrane databases for evidence on technology-based interventions for stroke survivors' caregivers. The search was restricted for all English-language articles from 1970 to February 2015 that implied technology-based interventions. This review included studies that measured the impact of these types of approaches on one or more of the following: depression and any of the following-problem-solving ability, burden, health status, social support, preparedness, and healthcare utilization by care recipient-as secondary outcomes. Telephone or face-to-face counseling sessions were not of interest for this review. The search strategy yielded five studies that met inclusion criteria: two randomized clinical trials and three pilot/preliminary studies, with diverse approaches and designs.
RESULTS: Four studies have assessed the primary outcome, two of which reported significant decreases in caregivers' depressive symptoms. Two studies had measured each of the following outcomes-burden, problem-solving ability, health status, and social support-and they revealed no significant differences following the intervention. Only one study assessed caregivers' preparedness and showed improved posttest scores. Healthcare services use by the care recipient was assessed by one study, and the results indicated significant reduction in emergency department visits and hospital re-admissions.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite various study designs and small sample sizes, available data suggest that an intervention that incorporates a theoretical-based model and is designed to target caregivers as early as possible is a promising strategy. Furthermore, there is a need to incorporate a cost-benefit analysis in future studies.
Label Included: 0

Title: Analysis of the Financial Return of Electronic Health Records.
Abstract: 
Label Included: 0

Title: Mobile Integrated Health Care and Community Paramedicine: An Emerging Emergency Medical Services Concept.
Abstract: Mobile integrated health care and community paramedicine are models of health care delivery that use emergency medical services (EMS) personnel to fill gaps in local health care infrastructure. Community paramedics may perform in an expanded role and require additional training in the management of chronic disease, communication skills, and cultural sensitivity, whereas other models use all levels of EMS personnel without additional training. Currently, there are few studies of the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness of mobile integrated health care and community paramedicine programs. Observations from existing program data suggest that these systems may prevent congestive heart failure readmissions, reduce EMS frequent-user transports, and reduce emergency department visits. Additional studies are needed to support the clinical and economic benefit of mobile integrated health care and community paramedicine.
Label Included: 0

Title: Research funding for telemedicine: an Australian perspective.
Abstract: Winning research funding is one of the most difficult challenges faced by researchers, especially with falling success rates and shrinking budgets. Telemedicine researchers can find it especially hard to win funding as they are often researching small changes to the health system that whilst important for patient care are often not as competitive as proposals that promise to cure diseases. In a climate of both tight health funding and tight research funding, telemedicine researchers should emphasise the potential for their research to add value and lower costs in order to increase their chances of winning funding.
Label Included: 0

Title: Unsustainable Home Telehealth: A Texas Qualitative Study.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Telehealth has emerged as an innovative approach to aid older individuals in managing chronic diseases in their homes and avoid hospitalizations and institutionalization. However, the sustainability of home telehealth programs remains a major challenge. This qualitative study explored the reasons for the initial adoption and the eventual decline of a decade-long home telehealth program at a Texas home health agency (HHA). Barriers to and facilitators for sustaining home telehealth programs were also explored.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Semistructured interviews of 13 HHA nursing staff and administrators, 1 physician, and 9 patients aged >55 years and their informal caregivers who used telehealth were conducted in summer 2013. Interview transcripts were analyzed using conventional content analysis.
RESULTS: Data analysis generated 5 themes representing the decline of the Texas home telehealth program: its impact on patient-centered outcomes, its cost-effectiveness, patient-clinician and interprofessional communication, technology usability, and home health management culture. Lack of significant impact on patient outcomes, in addition to financial, technical, management, and communication-related challenges, adversely affected the sustainability of this home telehealth program.
IMPLICATIONS: A home telehealth program that attains patient-centered outcomes, improves cost-effectiveness of managing chronic diseases, improves quality of communication among patients and clinicians, is user-friendly for older adults, and involves end users in decision making is likely to be sustainable.
Label Included: 0

Title: Median-based incremental cost-effectiveness ratios with censored data.
Abstract: Cost-effectiveness is an essential part of treatment evaluation, in addition to effectiveness. In the cost-effectiveness analysis, a measure called the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is widely utilized, and the mean cost and the mean (quality-adjusted) life years have served as norms to summarize cost and effectiveness for a study population. Recently, the median-based ICER was proposed for complementary or sensitivity analysis purposes. In this article, we extend this method when some data are censored.
Label Included: 0

Title: Economic Assessment and Budgetary Impact of a Telemedicine Procedure and Spirometry Quality Control in the Primary Care Setting.
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the economic impact of a telemedicine procedure designed to improve the quality of lung function testing (LFT) in primary care in a public healthcare system, compared with the standard method.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The economic impact of 9,039 LFTs performed in 51 health centers (2010-2013) using telespirometry (TS) compared to standard spirometry (SS) was studied.
RESULTS: TS costs more per unit than SS (€47.80 vs. €39.70) (2013), but the quality of the TS procedure is superior (84% good quality, compared to 61% using the standard procedure). Total cost of TS was €431,974 (compared with €358,306€ for SS), generating an economic impact of €73,668 (2013). The increase in cost for good quality LFT performed using TS was €34,030 (2010) and €144,295 (2013), while the costs of poor quality tests fell by €15,525 (2010) and 70,627€ (2013).
CONCLUSION: The cost-effectiveness analysis concludes that TS is 23% more expensive and 46% more effective. Healthcare costs consequently fall as the number of LFTs performed by TS rises. Avoiding poor quality, invalid LFTs generates savings that compensate for the increased costs of performing LFTs with TS, making it a cost-effective method.
Label Included: 0

Title: Empirical Treatment Effectiveness Models for Binary Outcomes.
Abstract: Randomized trials provide strong evidence regarding efficacy of interventions but are limited in their capacity to address potential heterogeneity in effectiveness within broad clinical populations. For example, a treatment that on average is superior may be distinctly worse in certain patients. We propose a technique for using large electronic health registries to develop and validate decision models that measure-for distinct combinations of covariate values-the difference in predicted outcomes among 2 alternative treatments. We demonstrate the methodology in a prototype analysis of in-hospital mortality under alternative revascularization treatments. First, we developed prediction models for a binary outcome of interest for each treatment. Decision criteria were then defined based on the treatment-specific model predictions. Patients were then classified as receiving concordant or discordant care (in relation to the model recommendation), and the association between discordance and outcomes was evaluated. We then present alternative decision criteria and validation methodologies, as well as sensitivity analyses that investigate 1) the imbalance between treatments on observed covariates and 2) the aggregate impact of unobserved covariates. Our methodology supplements population-average clinical trial results by modeling heterogeneity in outcomes according to specific covariate values. It thus allows for assessment of current practice, from which cogent hypotheses for improved care can be derived. Newly emerging large population registries will allow for accurate predictions of outcome risk under competing treatments, as complex functions of predictor variables. Whether or not the models might be used to inform decision making depends on the extent to which important predictors are available. Further work is needed to understand the strengths and limitations of this approach, particularly in relation to those based on randomized trials.
Label Included: 0

Title: [Preterm rupture of membranes: Is home care a safe management?].
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Compare the maternal and neonatal outcomes in pregnancies complicated by preterm prelabour rupture of membranes (PPROM), which were managed either at home (HAD) or hospital (HC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective study in two level III maternities during 2 years. Inclusion criteria in HAD were: singleton pregnancy, PPROM between 24 and 35 weeks of gestation, absence of chorioamnionitis, clinical stability at D7 of the rupture, cervical dilatation <3 cm, patient residing in the geographic area.
RESULTS: Thirty-two patients were included in the HAD group and 24 in the HC group. Our populations were similar in the 2 groups. The duration of latency was longer in the HAD group than in the HC group (27.5 d [20-37] versus 16.5 d [12.5 to 29.5]; P=0.026). Patients in the HAD group received fewer antibiotics with a similar rate of chorioamnionitis. No difference in terms of obstetrical and neonatal outcomes was observed. Number of days in neonatal resuscitation was lower in the HAD group than in the HC group (12.5 d [10-22] versus 43 d [20-52]; P=0.003).
CONCLUSION: HAD seems to be an alternative to continuous hospitalization for patients followed for PPROM between 24 and 35 weeks. A randomized study with a larger number of patients, including other data such as maternal satisfaction and cost analysis, would be interesting to confirm those preliminary results.
Label Included: 0

Title: Chemotherapy treatment patterns, costs, and outcomes of patients with gastric cancer in the United States: a retrospective analysis of electronic medical record (EMR) and administrative claims data.
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to conduct a retrospective database analysis to describe the chemotherapy treatment patterns and outcomes of patients with gastric cancer.
METHODS: Individuals diagnosed with gastric cancer were identified from the IMS Oncology Database, which contains electronic medical record (EMR) data collected from a variety of community practices, and the Truven Health MarketScan(®) Research database, an administrative claims database. Eligible patients were 18 years of age or older and had an ICD-9 code 151.0-151.9. Patients were excluded if they had evidence of cancer within 6 months of the index diagnosis.
RESULTS: There were 5257 eligible patients identified in EMR data: 1982 (37.7 %) of these patients also had data regarding chemotherapy treatments. Of the 1982 patients who received first-line therapy, 42.3 %, 18.1 %, and 7.9 % went on to receive a second, third, and fourth line of chemotherapy, respectively. There were 11891 eligible patients identified in the administrative database; 5299 (44.6 %) had data regarding chemotherapy. Of those initiating chemotherapy, 2888 (54.5 %) received a second line and 1598 (30.2 %) received a third line of treatment. The average total cost of care during first-line therapy was $40,811 [standard deviation (SD) = $49,916], which was incurred over an average of 53.5 (SD = 63.4) days. A similar pattern was evident in second-line treatment (mean/SD, $26,588/$33,301) over 41.2 (SD = 55.7) days.
CONCLUSIONS: Costs and duration of care received vary among gastric cancer patients in the U.S. There is a need to understand which regimens may be associated with better health outcomes and to standardize treatment as appropriate.
Label Included: 0

Title: Prevention of Work-related Musculoskeletal Injuries in Rehabilitation Nursing.
Abstract: PURPOSE: Work-related musculoskeletal injuries remain a concern for the nursing profession. The purpose of this study was to reduce work-related musculoskeletal nursing injuries by 10% on the rehabilitation unit in a Midwestern hospital.
DESIGN: Using a quality improvement and evidence-based practice lens, one group time-series design was employed.
METHODS: Shift reports, interdisciplinary collaboration, self-study educational packets, and journal club sessions were implemented.
FINDINGS: Results, although not statistically significant, indicated over a 50% reduction in work-related musculoskeletal nursing injuries. Self-engagement and the Hawthorne effect are thought to have contributed to this decline in injury rates.
CONCLUSIONS: A cost-benefit analysis indicates an estimated savings of $90,000 over 4 months. A yearly practice-based education program and improvement in electronic health records is advocated to sustain this decrease in nursing injury rates.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Context-specific interventions, communication, algorithm approach to patient transfers, and research knowledge are needed to decrease rehabilitation work-related musculoskeletal nursing injuries.
Label Included: 0

Title: Comparison of Long-term Care in Nursing Homes Versus Home Health: Costs and Outcomes in Alabama.
Abstract: PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: To compare acute care outcomes and costs among nursing home residents with community-dwelling home health recipients.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A matched retrospective cohort study of Alabamians aged more than or equal to 65 years admitted to a nursing home or home health between March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008 (N = 1,291 pairs). Medicare claims were compared up to one year after admission into either setting. Death, emergency department and inpatient visits, inpatient length of stay, and acute care costs were compared using t tests. Medicaid long-term care costs were compared for a subset of matched beneficiaries.
RESULTS: After one year, 77.7% of home health beneficiaries were alive compared with 76.2% of nursing home beneficiaries (p < .001). Home health beneficiaries averaged 0.2 hospital visits and 0.1 emergency department visits more than nursing home beneficiaries, differences that were statistically significant. Overall acute care costs were not statistically different; home health beneficiaries' costs averaged $31,423, nursing home beneficiaries' $32,239 (p = .5032). Among 426 dual-eligible pairs, Medicaid long-term care costs averaged $4,582 greater for nursing home residents (p < .001).
IMPLICATIONS: Using data from Medicare claims, beneficiaries with similar functional status, medical diagnosis history, and demographics had similar acute care costs regardless of whether they were admitted to a nursing home or home health care. Additional research controlling for exogenous factors relating to long-term care decisions is needed.
Label Included: 0

Title: Telehealth for Patients with Hypertension, Coronary Artery Disease or Implantable Cardiac Devices: A Review of the Clinical Effectiveness, Cost-effectiveness and Guidelines
Abstract: This Rapid Response report aims to review the clinical- and cost-effectiveness of telehealth for patients with hypertension, coronary artery disease (CAD), or conditions requiring implantable cardiac devices. Guidelines associated with the use of telehealth in the management of these conditions will also be examined.
Label Included: 0

